Hybrid and Renewable Energy Resources in India
In India, they do not connect many large numbers of areas and villages to the power distribution
system. Therefore, hybrid renewable sources of energy is better way to provide power in these areas.
Renewable energy sources and technologies can provide solutions to the problems we are facing
about the energy in the developing countries. The renewable source of energy is one of the many
ways or options which provide the power the generation and distribution in the country. Today,
renewable account for about 33% of India's primary energy consumptions. There is an increasing
need to explore renewable energy sources to meet sustainability and environmental targets. In this
paper, renewable energy and hybrid energy is explained how it is effective and better for the nature.

Introduction
The sources of electricity production such as coal, oil, and natural gas have contributed to one-third of
global greenhouse gas emissions. Renewable hybrids resources can be one of the solution to the
issues. A hybrid system can be the combination of wind, solar with an additional resource of
generation or storage. Using renewable energy or green energy for the distribution of electrical power
in the remote areas is quiet prominent as this energy is abundant in nature. It defines hybrid energy
as the combination of various renewable energy resources which are present in the nature and it
defines renewable energy resources as energy from resources which are present or exist over a wide
geographical area and are present in nature. For, the power generation fossil fuels is on the fuels
which is used and is a major factor of increased pollution level and climate change. Coal is a primary
source of air pollution and greenhouse gas emission. This kind of energy is not helpful in the future
and depending upon fossil fuels can be impactful to the nature and the environment. Hybrid systems
are in the competition in reduction of cost of battery storage and solar energy. An optimal combination
of solar, wind and storage can deliver stable round-the-clock power even at today’s costs of around
?6-7/kWh.

Hybrid and Renewable Energy in India
India in the field of hybrid energy has added 65-75 GW of wind and solar capacity so far, with the
contribution of 9.5 percent of generated energy in May 2019 and government is planning to achieve
175 GW by next two years, which could exceed the share of energy to 15-16 percent. India’s ministry
of new and renewable energy in 2018 released a solar-wind hybrid policy which was to provide a
framework to promote grid connected hybrid energy through set-ups that would use land and
transmission infrastructure optimally and also manage the variability of renewable resources to some
extent. As energy is the basic requirement in our day-to-day life and for the economic development in
every sector of Indian economy. So it is necessary for India to look out the alternative energy source
for the generation and distribution of energy across the country. India in the coming years is
determined to produce clean energy, which means no pollution and terrible impact to the
environment. The Government of India has put forward many provisions and established many

agencies that will help in achieving its clean energy goal. Renewable energy, excluding large hydro
projects already account for 9% of the total installed energy capacity, equivalent to 12,610 MW of
energy. In combination with large hydro, the capacity is over 34%, i.e., 48,643 MW, in a total installed
capacity of 144,980 MW. Fig. 1 is showing installed power capacity (MW) in India.

Gross Installed Capacity of Renewable Energy
State government, central government, and private companies are on the driving seat of the Indian
energy sector which means private sector is leading the way in renewable energy source investment
in India. In India almost 95% of the installed renewable capacity derives from private companies, 2%
from the central government, and 3% from the state government. The top private companies in the
field of non-conventional energy generation are Tata Power Solar, Suzlon, and ReNew Power. Tata
Power Solar System Limited are the most significant integrated solar power players in the country,
Suzlon realizes wind energy projects, and ReNew Power Ventures operate with solar and wind
power. Under union budget of India 2018–2019, INR 3762 crore (USD 581.09 million), was allotted for
grid interactive renewable power schemes and projects. As per the 31.12.2018, the installed capacity
of total renewable power (excluding large hydropower) in the country amounted to 74.08166 GW.
Around 9.363 GW of solar energy, 1.766 GW of wind, 0.105 GW of small hydropower (SHP), and
biomass power of 8.7 GW capacity were added in 2017–2018. Wind energy is the leading power
generator in renewable energy industry, which is over 47% (35,138.15 MW) of the total generation of
renewable energy across the country, followed by solar power 34% (9075.5 MW) and small
hydropower of 6% (4517.45 MW). In the renewable energy country attractiveness index (RECAI) of
2018, India ranked in fourth position. The installed renewable energy production capacity has grown
at a sped up pace over the preceding few years, posting a CAGR of 19.78% between 2014 and 2018.
Some renewable energy resources are Biomass, Hydropower, Solar energy, Wind energy, and
geothermal energy. These renewable resources are used to produce the electricity and are not
producing any harm to the environment and there is no pollution.

Current Energy Policies
In every Five-Year plans (FYPs) government introduces some policies regarding these renewable
resources for the betterment of the environment. Therefore, government has introduces some policies
with the final word objectives in mind to framework significantly increase the share of renewable
energy source in India’s energy mix. These energy policies set by the government are: The Electricity
Act contains the subsequent provisions regarding non-conventional energy sources. The Central
Government shall, from time to time, prepare and publish the National Electricity Policy and Tariff
Policy, in consultation with the state governments and authority for development of the power system
supported optimal utilization of resources like coal, fossil fuel, nuclear substances or material, hydro
and renewable sources of energy. The national electricity policy aims at achieving the subsequent
objectives; access to electricity, availability of power demand, energy and peaking shortages to be
overcome and spinning reserve to be available. The Tariff Policy announced in January 2006 has the
subsequent provisions:
1. The Appropriate Commission shall fix a minimum percentage for purchase of energy from such
sources taking into consideration availability of such resources within the region and its impact
on retail tariffs.
2. It’ll take some time before non-conventional technologies can compete with conventional
sources in terms of cost of electricity. Therefore, procurement by distribution companies shall be
done at preferential tariffs determined by the Commission.

3. Such procurement by Distribution Licensees for future requirements shall be done, as far as
possible, through competitive bidding process under Section 63 of the Act within suppliers
offering energy from the same variety of nonconventional sources.
4. The Central Commission should lie down guidelines within three months for pricing non-firm
power, especially from nonconventional sources, to be followed in cases where such
procurement isn’t through competitive bidding.
National Rural Electrification Policies, 2006
1. Goals include provision of access to electricity to any or all households by the year 2009, quality
and reliable power supply at reasonable rates, and minimum lifeline consumption of 1
unit/household/day as a merit good by year 2012.
2. For villages/habitations where grid connectivity wouldn’t be workable or not cost effective, offgrid solutions supported it may take standalone systems up for supply of electricity.
3. State government should, within 6 months, prepare and notify a rural electrification plan, which
should map and detail the electrification delivery mechanism.
4. The Gram Panchayat shall certify and make sure the electrified status of the village as on 31st
March annually.
5. Integrated Energy Policy Report (Planning Commission) 2006
6. Suggest a path to satisfy energy needs of the country in an integrated manner up to 2031–2032.
It recommended special focus on renewable energy development.

Conclusion
India isn’t only the country which is doing great within the field of hybrid and renewable energy
sources, about 50-plus projects of MW-scale have already been announced or are under construction
globally, with Australia and US being the leaders. As renewable energy resources are the long run of
distribution and generation of power electricity, therefore sizeable of projects are installed by the
private and central companies to attain the goal of unpolluted energy. In order that there’s no pollution
and terrible impact on the environment. As people are becoming knowledgeable about these energy
sources, many of them are moving towards the renewable source of energy to tackle the pollution and
heating.

References
1. B. Shyam and P. Kanakasabapathy, 'Renewable energy utilization in India — policies,
opportunities and challenges,' 2017 International Conference on Technological Advancements
in Power and Energy (TAP Energy), Kollam, 2017
2. Kumar. J, C.R., Majid, M.A. Renewable energy for sustainable development in India: current
status, future prospects, challenges, employment, and investment opportunities. Energ Sustain
Soc 10, 2 (2020).
3. Bhardwaj, Priyavrat & Tanwar, Amar. (2016). IMPLEMENTATION OF HYBRID ENERGY
SYSTEM IN INDIA. International Journal of Research in Engineering and Technology, Volume:
05 Issue: 11 | Nov-2016. 5. 10.15623/ijret.2016.0511029.
4. Ashwani Kumar, Kapil Kumar, Naresh Kaushik, Satyawati Sharma, Saroj Mishra, Renewable
energy in India: Current status and future potentials, Renewable and Sustainable Energy
Reviews, Volume 14, Issue 8, 2010

Need Help With The Assignment?
Our professionals are ready to assist with any writing!

GET HELP

