STEPHEN W.

HAWKING
S P E C I A L

A N N I V E R S A R Y

E D I T I O N

THE THEORY OF

EVERYTHING

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

THE ORIGIN AND FATE OF THE UNIVERSE

PHOENIX

BOOKS

Copyright ©2005 Phoenix Books
First published under the title The Cambridge Lectures:
Life Wo r k s Copyright © 1996 by Dove Audio, Inc.
All rights reserved. Written permission must be secured from the publisher
to use or reproduce any part of this book, except brief quotations in critical
reviews and articles.
ISBN: 1-59777-508-8
Library of Congress Cataloging-In-Publication Data Available
Book Design by Sonia Fiore
Printed in the United States of America

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Phoenix Books
9465 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 315
Beverly Hills, CA 90212
10 9 8 7 6 5 4

CONTENTS
Introduction
FIRST LECTURE
ideas about the universe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1

SECOND LECTURE
the expanding universe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13

THIRD LECTURE
black holes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35

FOURTH LECTURE
black holes ain’t so black . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57

FIFTH LECTURE
the origin and fate of the universe . . . . . . . . . . . . .77

SIXTH LECTURE
the direction of time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

SEVENTH LECTURE
5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

the theory of everything . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .119

INDEX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .137

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

INTRODUCTION

INTRODUCTION

I

n this series of lectures I shall try to give an outline of what we think is the
history of the universe from the big bang to black holes. In the first lecture
I shall briefly review past ideas about the universe and how we got to our
present picture. One might call this the history of the history of the universe.
In the second lecture I shall describe how both Newton’s and Einstein’s theories of gravity led to the conclusion that the universe could not be static; it
had to be either expanding or contracting. This, in turn, implied that there
must have been a time between ten and twenty billion years ago when the
density of the universe was infinite. This is called the big bang. It would have
been the beginning of the universe.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In the third lecture I shall talk about black holes. These are formed when a
massive star or an even larger body collapses in on itself under its own
gravitational pull. According to Einstein’s general theory of relativity, anyone
foolish enough to fall into a black hole will be lost forever. They will not be
able to come out of the black hole again. Instead, history, as far as they are
concerned, will come to a sticky end at a singularity. However, general
relativity is a classical theory—that is, it doesn't take into account the
uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics.

IV

INTRODUCTION

In the fourth lecture I shall describe how quantum mechanics allows energy to
leak out of black holes. Black holes aren’t as black as they are painted.
In the fifth lecture I shall apply quantum mechanical ideas to the big bang and
the origin of the universe. This leads to the idea that space–time may be finite
in extent but without boundary or edge. It would be like the surface of the
Earth but with two more dimensions.
In the sixth lecture I shall show how this new boundary proposal could explain
why the past is so different from the future, even though the laws of physics are
time symmetric.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Finally, in the seventh lecture I shall describe how we are trying to find a
unified theory that will include quantum mechanics, gravity, and all the other
interactions of physics. If we achieve this, we shall really understand the
universe and our position in it.

V

FIRST
LECTURE

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

IDEAS ABOUT THE UNIVERSE

IDEAS

ABOUT

THE

UNIVERSE

A

s long ago as 340 B.C. Aristotle, in his book On the Heavens, was able to
put forward two good arguments for believing that the Earth was a round
ball rather than a flat plate. First, he realized that eclipses of the moon were
caused by the Earth coming between the sun and the moon. The Earth’s shadow on the moon was always round, which would be true only if the Earth was
spherical. If the Earth had been a flat disk, the shadow would have been elongated and elliptical, unless the eclipse always occurred at a time when the sun
was directly above the center of the disk.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Second, the Greeks knew from their travels that the Pole Star appeared lower
in the sky when viewed in the south than it did in more northerly regions.
From the difference in the apparent position of the Pole Star in Egypt and
Greece, Aristotle even quoted an estimate that the distance around the Earth
was four hundred thousand stadia. It is not known exactly what length a stadium was, but it may have been about two hundred yards. This would make
Aristotle’s estimate about twice the currently accepted figure.
The Greeks even had a third argument that the Earth must be round, for why
else does one first see the sails of a ship coming over the horizon and only later
see the hull? Aristotle thought that the Earth was stationary and that the sun,
the moon, the planets, and the stars moved in circular orbits about the Earth.
He believed this because he felt, for mystical reasons, that the Earth was the
center of the universe and that circular motion was the most perfect.
3

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

This idea was elaborated by Ptolemy in the first century A.D. into a complete
cosmological model. The Earth stood at the center, surrounded by eight
spheres, which carried the moon, the sun, the stars, and the five planets known
at the time: Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. The planets themselves
moved on smaller circles attached to their respective spheres in order to
account for their rather complicated observed paths in the sky. The outermost
sphere carried the so–called fixed stars, which always stay in the same positions
relative to each other but which rotate together across the sky. What lay
beyond the last sphere was never made very clear, but it certainly was not part
of mankind’s observable universe.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Ptolemy’s model provided a reasonably accurate system for predicting the
positions of heavenly bodies in the sky. But in order to predict these positions
correctly, Ptolemy had to make an assumption that the moon followed a path
that sometimes brought it twice as close to the Earth as at other times. And
that meant that the moon had sometimes to appear twice as big as it usually
does. Ptolemy was aware of this flaw but nevertheless his model was generally,
although not universally, accepted. It was adopted by the Christian church as
the picture of the universe that was in accordance with Scripture. It had the
great advantage that it left lots of room outside the sphere of fixed stars for
heaven and hell.

4

IDEAS

ABOUT

THE

UNIVERSE

A much simpler model, however, was proposed in 1514 by a Polish priest,
Nicholas Copernicus. At first, for fear of being accused of heresy, Copernicus
published his model anonymously. His idea was that the sun was stationary at
the center and that the Earth and the planets moved in circular orbits around
the sun. Sadly for Copernicus, nearly a century passed before this idea was to
be taken seriously. Then two astronomers—the German, Johannes Kepler, and
the Italian, Galileo Galilei—started publicly to support the Copernican theory, despite the fact that the orbits it predicted did not quite match the ones
observed. The death of the Aristotelian–Ptolemaic theory came in 1609. In
that year Galileo started observing the night sky with a telescope, which had
just been invented.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

When he looked at the planet Jupiter, Galileo found that it was accompanied by several small satellites, or moons, which orbited around it. This
implied that everything did not have to orbit directly around the Earth as
Aristotle and Ptolemy had thought. It was, of course, still possible to believe
that the Earth was stationary at the center of the universe, but that the
moons of Jupiter moved on extremely complicated paths around the Earth,
giving the appearance that they orbited Jupiter. However, Copernicus’s
theory was much simpler.

5

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

At the same time, Kepler had modified Copernicus’s theory, suggesting that the
planets moved not in circles, but in ellipses. The predictions now finally
matched the observations. As far as Kepler was concerned, elliptical orbits were
merely an ad hoc hypothesis—and a rather repugnant one at that because
ellipses were clearly less perfect than circles. Having discovered, almost by accident, that elliptical orbits fitted the observations well, he could not reconcile
with his idea that the planets were made to orbit the sun by magnetic forces.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

An explanation was provided only much later, in 1687, when Newton published his Principia Mathematica Naturalis Causae. This was probably the most
important single work ever published in the physical sciences. In it, Newton
not only put forward a theory of how bodies moved in space and time, but he
also developed the mathematics needed to analyze those motions. In addition,
Newton postulated a law of universal gravitation. This said that each body in
the universe was attracted toward every other body by a force which was
stronger the more massive the bodies and the closer they were to each other.
It was the same force which caused objects to fall to the ground. The story that
Newton was hit on the head by an apple is almost certainly apocryphal. All
Newton himself ever said was that the idea of gravity came to him as he sat in
a contemplative mood, and was occasioned by the fall of an apple.

6

IDEAS

ABOUT

THE

UNIVERSE

Newton went on to show that, according to his law, gravity causes the moon
to move in an elliptical orbit around the Earth and causes the Earth and the
planets to follow elliptical paths around the sun. The Copernican model got
rid of Ptolemy’s celestial spheres, and with them the idea that the universe had
a natural boundary. The fixed stars did not appear to change their relative positions as the Earth went around the sun. It therefore became natural to suppose
that the fixed stars were objects like our sun but much farther away. This raised
a problem. Newton realized that, according to his theory of gravity, the stars
should attract each other; so, it seemed they could not remain essentially
motionless. Would they not all fall together at some point?
In a letter in 1691 to Richard Bentley, another leading thinker of his day,
Newton argued that this would indeed happen if there were only a finite number of stars. But he reasoned that if, on the other hand, there were an infinite
number of stars distributed more or less uniformly over infinite space, this
would not happen because there would not be any central point for them to
fall to. This argument is an instance of the pitfalls that one can encounter
when one talks about infinity.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In an infinite universe, every point can be regarded as the center because every
point has an infinite number of stars on each side of it. The correct approach,
it was realized only much later, is to consider the finite situation in which the
7

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

stars all fall in on each other. One then asks how things change if one adds
more stars roughly uniformly distributed outside this region. According to
Newton’s law, the extra stars would make no difference at all to the original
ones, and so the stars would fall in just as fast. We can add as many stars as we
like, but they will still always collapse in on themselves. We now know it is
impossible to have an infinite static model of the universe in which gravity is
always attractive.
It is an interesting reflection on the general climate of thought before the
twentieth century that no one had suggested that the universe was expanding
or contracting. It was generally accepted that either the universe had existed
forever in an unchanging state or that it had been created at a finite time in
the past, more or less as we observe it today. In part, this may have been due
to people’s tendency to believe in eternal truths as well as the comfort they
found in the thought that even though they may grow old and die, the universe is unchanging.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Even those who realized that Newton’s theory of gravity showed that the universe could not be static did not think to suggest that it might be expanding.
Instead, they attempted to modify the theory by making the gravitational force
repulsive at very large distances. This did not significantly affect their predictions of the motions of the planets. But it would allow an infinite distribution
8

IDEAS

ABOUT

THE

UNIVERSE

of stars to remain in equilibrium, with the attractive forces between nearby
stars being balanced by the repulsive forces from those that were farther away.
However, we now believe such an equilibrium would be unstable. If the stars
in some region got only slightly near each other, the attractive forces between
them would become stronger and would dominate over the repulsive forces.
This would mean that the stars would continue to fall toward each other. On
the other hand, if the stars got a bit farther away from each other, the repulsive forces would dominate and drive them farther apart.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Another objection to an infinite static universe is normally ascribed to the
German philosopher Heinrich Olbers. In fact, various contemporaries of
Newton had raised the problem, and the Olbers article of 1823 was not even
the first to contain plausible arguments on this subject. It was, however, the
first to be widely noted. The difficulty is that in an infinite static universe
nearly every line or side would end on the surface of a star. Thus one would
expect that the whole sky would be as bright as the sun, even at night. Olbers’s
counterargument was that the light from distant stars would be dimmed by
absorption by intervening matter. However, if that happened, the intervening
matter would eventually heat up until it glowed as brightly as the stars.

9

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

The only way of avoiding the conclusion that the whole of the night sky
should be as bright as the surface of the sun would be if the stars had not been
shining forever, but had turned on at some finite time in the past. In that case,
the absorbing matter might not have heated up yet, or the light from distant
stars might not yet have reached us. And that brings us to the question of what
could have caused the stars to have turned on in the first place.

THE BEGINNING OF THE UNIVERSE
The beginning of the universe had, of course, been discussed for a long time.
According to a number of early cosmologies in the Jewish/Christian/Muslim
tradition, the universe started at a finite and not very distant time in the past.
One argument for such a beginning was the feeling that it was necessary to
have a first cause to explain the existence of the universe.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Another argument was put forward by St. Augustine in his book, The City of
God. He pointed out that civilization is progressing, and we remember who
performed this deed or developed that technique. Thus man, and so also perhaps the universe, could not have been around all that long. For otherwise we
would have already progressed more than we have.

10

IDEAS

ABOUT

THE

UNIVERSE

St. Augustine accepted a date of about 5000 B.C. for the creation of the universe according to the book of Genesis. It is interesting that this is not so far
from the end of the last Ice Age, about 10,000 B.C., which is when civilization
really began. Aristotle and most of the other Greek philosophers, on the other
hand, did not like the idea of a creation because it made too much of divine
intervention. They believed, therefore, that the human race and the world
around it had existed, and would exist, forever. They had already considered
the argument about progress, described earlier, and answered it by saying that
there had been periodic floods or other disasters that repeatedly set the human
race right back to the beginning of civilization.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

When most people believed in an essentially static and unchanging universe,
the question of whether or not it had a beginning was really one of metaphysics or theology. One could account for what was observed either way.
Either the universe had existed forever, or it was set in motion at some finite
time in such a manner as to look as though it had existed forever. But in 1929,
Edwin Hubble made the landmark observation that wherever you look, distant
stars are moving rapidly away from us. In other words, the universe is expanding. This means that at earlier times objects would have been closer together.
In fact, it seemed that there was a time about ten or twenty thousand million
years ago when they were all at exactly the same place.

11

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

This discovery finally brought the question of the beginning of the universe
into the realm of science. Hubble's observations suggested that there was a
time called the big bang when the universe was infinitesimally small and,
therefore, infinitely dense. If there were events earlier than this time, then
they could not affect what happens at the present time. Their existence can be
ignored because it would have no observational consequences.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

One may say that time had a beginning at the big bang, in the sense that earlier times simply could not be defined. It should be emphasized that this beginning in time is very different from those that had been considered previously.
In an unchanging universe, a beginning in time is something that has to be
imposed by some being outside the universe. There is no physical necessity for
a beginning. One can imagine that God created the universe at literally any
time in the past. On the other hand, if the universe is expanding, there may
be physical reasons why there had to be a beginning. One could still believe
that God created the universe at the instant of the big bang. He could even
have created it at a later time in just such a way as to make it look as though
there had been a big bang. But it would be meaningless to suppose that it was
created before the big bang. An expanding universe does not preclude a creator, but it does place limits on when He might have carried out his job.

12

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

SECOND
LECTURE

THE EXPANDING UNIVERSE

THE

EXPANDING

UNIVERSE

O

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

ur sun and the nearby stars are all part of a vast collection of stars called
the Milky Way galaxy. For a long time it was thought that this was the
whole universe. It was only in 1924 that the American astronomer Edwin
Hubble demonstrated that ours was not the only galaxy. There were, in fact,
many others, with vast tracks of empty space between them. In order to prove
this he needed to determine the distances to these other galaxies. We can
determine the distance of nearby stars by observing how they change position
as the Earth goes around the sun. But other galaxies are so far away that, unlike
nearby stars, they really do appear fixed. Hubble was forced, therefore, to use
indirect methods to measure the distances.
Now the apparent brightness of a star depends on two factors—luminosity and
how far it is from us. For nearby stars we can measure both their apparent
brightness and their distance, so we can work out their luminosity. Conversely,
if we knew the luminosity of stars in other galaxies, we could work out their
distance by measuring their apparent brightness. Hubble argued that there
were certain types of stars that always had the same luminosity when they were
near enough for us to measure. If, therefore, we found such stars in another
galaxy, we could assume that they had the same luminosity. Thus, we could
calculate the distance to that galaxy. If we could do this for a number of stars
in the same galaxy, and our calculations always gave the same distance, we
could be fairly confident of our estimate. In this way, Edwin Hubble worked
out the distances to nine different galaxies.
15

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

We now know that our galaxy is only one of some hundred thousand million
that can be seen using modern telescopes, each galaxy itself containing some
hundred thousand million stars. We live in a galaxy that is about one hundred
thousand light-years across and is slowly rotating; the stars in its spiral arms
orbit around its center about once every hundred million years. Our sun is just
an ordinary, average-sized, yellow star, near the outer edge of one of the spiral
arms. We have certainly come a long way since Aristotle and Ptolemy, when
we thought that the Earth was the center of the universe.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Stars are so far away that they appear to us to be just pinpoints of light. We
cannot determine their size or shape. So how can we tell different types of stars
apart? For the vast majority of stars, there is only one correct characteristic
feature that we can observe—the color of their light. Newton discovered that
if light from the sun passes through a prism, it breaks up into its component
colors—its spectrum—like in a rainbow. By focusing a telescope on an
individual star or galaxy, one can similarly observe the spectrum of the light
from that star or galaxy. Different stars have different spectra, but the relative
brightness of the different colors is always exactly what one would expect to
find in the light emitted by an object that is glowing red hot. This means that
we can tell a star's temperature from the spectrum of its light. Moreover, we
find that certain very specific colors are missing from stars’ spectra, and these
missing colors may vary from star to star. We know that each chemical element
16

THE

EXPANDING

UNIVERSE

absorbs the characteristic set of very specific colors. Thus, by matching each of
those which are missing from a star’s spectrum, we can determine exactly
which elements are present in the star’s atmosphere.
In the 1920s, when astronomers began to look at the spectra of stars in other
galaxies, they found something most peculiar: There were the same characteristic sets of missing colors as for stars in our own galaxy, but they were all
shifted by the same relative amount toward the red end of the spectrum. The
only reasonable explanation of this was that the galaxies were moving away
from us, and the frequency of the light waves from them was being reduced, or
red-shifted, by the Doppler effect. Listen to a car passing on the road. As the
car is approaching, its engine sounds at a higher pitch, corresponding to a
higher frequency of sound waves; and when it passes and goes away, it sounds
at a lower pitch. The behavior of light or radial waves is similar. Indeed, the
police made use of the Doppler effect to measure the speed of cars by measuring the frequency of pulses of radio waves reflected off them.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In the years following his proof of the existence of other galaxies, Hubble spent
his time cataloging their distances and observing their spectra. At that time
most people expected the galaxies to be moving around quite randomly, and so
expected to find as many spectra which were blue-shifted as ones which were
red–shifted. It was quite a surprise, therefore, to find that the galaxies all
17

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

appeared red-shifted. Every single one was moving away from us. More surprising still was the result which Hubble published in 1929: Even the size of the
galaxy's red shift was not random, but was directly proportional to the galaxy's
distance from us. Or, in other words, the farther a galaxy was, the faster it was
moving away. And that meant that the universe could not be static, as everyone previously thought, but was in fact expanding. The distance between the
different galaxies was growing all the time.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The discovery that the universe was expanding was one of the great intellectual revolutions of the twentieth century. With hindsight, it is easy to wonder
why no one had thought of it before. Newton and others should have realized
that a static universe would soon start to contract under the influence of
gravity. But suppose that, instead of being static, the universe was expanding.
If it was expanding fairly slowly, the force of gravity would cause it eventually
to stop expanding and then to start contracting. However, if it was expanding
at more than a certain critical rate, gravity would never be strong enough to
stop it, and the universe would continue to expand forever. This is a bit like
what happens when one fires a rocket upward from the surface of the Earth. If
it has a fairly low speed, gravity will eventually stop the rocket and it will start
falling back. On the other hand, if the rocket has more than a certain critical
speed–about seven miles a second–gravity will not be strong enough to pull it
back, so it will keep going away from the Earth forever.
18

THE

EXPANDING

UNIVERSE

This behavior of the universe could have been predicted from Newton’s theory
of gravity at any time in the nineteenth, the eighteenth, or even the late seventeenth centuries. Yet so strong was the belief in a static universe that it persisted into the early twentieth century. Even when Einstein formulated the
general theory of relativity in 1915, he was sure that the universe had to be
static. He therefore modified his theory to make this possible, introducing a socalled cosmological constant into his equations. This was a new “antigravity”
force, which, unlike other forces, did not come from any particular source, but
was built into the very fabric of space-time. His cosmological constant gave
space-time an inbuilt tendency to expand, and this could be made to exactly
balance the attraction of all the matter in the universe so that a static universe
would result.
Only one man, it seems, was willing to take general relativity at face value.
While Einstein and other physicists were looking for ways of avoiding general
relativity’s prediction of a nonstatic universe, the Russian physicist Alexander
Friedmann instead set about explaining it.

THE FRIEDMANN MODELS

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The equations of general relativity, which determined how the universe
evolves in time, are too complicated to solve in detail. So what Friedmann
19

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

did, instead, was to make two very simple assumptions about the universe:
that the universe looks identical in whichever direction we look, and that
this would also be true if we were observing the universe from anywhere else.
On the basis of general relativity and these two assumptions, Friedmann
showed that we should not expect the universe to be static. In fact, in 1922,
several years before Edwin Hubble's discovery, Friedmann predicted exactly
what Hubble found.
The assumption that the universe looks the same in every direction is clearly not
true in reality. For example, the other stars in our galaxy form a distinct band of
light across the night sky called the Milky Way. But if we look at distant galaxies, there seems to be more or less the same number of them in each direction.
So the universe does seem to be roughly the same in every direction, provided
one views it on a large scale compared to the distance between galaxies.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

For a long time this was sufficient justification for Friedmann’s assumption—
as a rough approximation to the real universe. But more recently a lucky accident uncovered the fact that Friedmann’s assumption is in fact a remarkably
accurate description of our universe. In 1965, two American physicists, Arno
Penzias and Robert Wilson, were working at the Bell Labs in New Jersey on
the design of a very sensitive microwave detector for communicating with
orbiting satellites. They were worried when they found that their detector was
20

THE

EXPANDING

UNIVERSE

picking up more noise than it ought to, and that the noise did not appear to
be coming from any particular direction. First they looked for bird droppings
on their detector and checked for other possible malfunctions, but soon ruled
these out. They knew that any noise from within the atmosphere would be
stronger when the detector is not pointing straight up than when it is, because
the atmosphere appears thicker when looking at an angle to the vertical.
The extra noise was the same whichever direction the detector pointed, so it
must have come from outside the atmosphere. It was also the same day and
night throughout the year, even though the Earth was rotating on its axis and
orbiting around the sun. This showed that the radiation must come from
beyond the solar system, and even from beyond the galaxy, as otherwise it
would vary as the Earth pointed the detector in different directions.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In fact, we know that the radiation must have traveled to us across most of
the observable universe. Since it appears to be the same in different directions, the universe must also be the same in every direction, at least on a large
scale. We now know that whichever direction we look in, this noise never
varies by more than one part in ten thousand. So Penzias and Wilson had
unwittingly stumbled across a remarkably accurate confirmation of
Friedmann’s first assumption.

21

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

At roughly the same time, two American physicists at nearby Princeton
University, Bob Dicke and Jim Peebles, were also taking an interest in
microwaves. They were working on a suggestion made by George Gamow,
once a student of Alexander Friedmann, that the early universe should have
been very hot and dense, glowing white hot. Dicke and Peebles argued that we
should still be able to see this glowing, because light from very distant parts
of the early universe would only just be reaching us now. However, the
expansion of the universe meant that this light should be so greatly red-shifted that it would appear to us now as microwave radiation. Dicke and Peebles
were looking for this radiation when Penzias and Wilson heard about their
work and realized that they had already found it. For this, Penzias and
Wilson were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1978, which seems a bit hard on
Dicke and Peebles.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Now at first sight, all this evidence that the universe looks the same whichever direction we look in might seem to suggest there is something special about
our place in the universe. In particular, it might seem that if we observe all
other galaxies to be moving away from us, then we must be at the center of the
universe. There is, however, an alternative explanation: The universe might
also look the same in every direction as seen from any other galaxy. This, as we
have seen, was Friedmann’s second assumption.

22

THE

EXPANDING

UNIVERSE

We have no scientific evidence for or against this assumption. We believe it
only on grounds of modesty. It would be most remarkable if the universe
looked the same in every direction around us, but not around other points in
the universe. In Friedmann’s model, all the galaxies are moving directly away
from each other. The situation is rather like steadily blowing up a balloon
which has a number of spots painted on it. As the balloon expands, the distance between any two spots increases, but there is no spot that can be said to
be the center of the expansion. Moreover, the farther apart the spots are, the
faster they will be moving apart. Similarly, in Friedmann’s model the speed at
which any two galaxies are moving apart is proportional to the distance
between them. So it predicted that the red shift of a galaxy should be directly
proportional to its distance from us, exactly as Hubble found.
Despite the success of his model and his prediction of Hubble’s observations,
Friedmann’s work remained largely unknown in the West. It became known
only after similar models were discovered in 1935 by the American physicist
Howard Robertson and the British mathematician Arthur Walker, in response
to Hubble’s discovery of the uniform expansion of the universe.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Although Friedmann found only one, there are in fact three different kinds of
models that obey Friedmann’s two fundamental assumptions. In the first
kind—which Friedmann found—the universe is expanding so sufficiently
23

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

slowly that the gravitational attraction between the different galaxies causes
the expansion to slow down and eventually to stop. The galaxies then start to
move toward each other and the universe contracts. The distance between two
neighboring galaxies starts at zero, increases to a maximum, and then decreases
back down to zero again.
In the second kind of solution, the universe is expanding so rapidly that the
gravitational attraction can never stop it, though it does slow it down a bit.
The separation between neighboring galaxies in this model starts at zero, and
eventually the galaxies are moving apart at a steady speed.
Finally, there is a third kind of solution, in which the universe is expanding
only just fast enough to avoid recollapse. In this case the separation also starts
at zero, and increases forever. However, the speed at which the galaxies are
moving apart gets smaller and smaller, although it never quite reaches zero.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

A remarkable feature of the first kind of Friedmann model is that the universe
is not infinite in space, but neither does space have any boundary. Gravity is
so strong that space is bent round onto itself, making it rather like the surface
of the Earth. If one keeps traveling in a certain direction on the surface of the
Earth, one never comes up against an impassable barrier or falls over the edge,
but eventually comes back to where one started. Space, in the first Friedmann
24

THE

EXPANDING

UNIVERSE

model, is just like this, but with three dimensions instead of two for the Earth’s
surface. The fourth dimension—time—is also finite in extent, but it is like a
line with two ends or boundaries, a beginning and an end. We shall see later
that when one combines general relativity with the uncertainty principle of
quantum mechanics, it is possible for both space and time to be finite without
any edges or boundaries. The idea that one could go right around the universe
and end up where one started makes good science fiction, but it doesn't have
much practical significance because it can be shown that the universe would
recollapse to zero size before one could get round. You would need to travel
faster than light in order to end up where you started before the universe came
to an end—and that is not allowed.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

But which Friedmann model describes our universe? Will the universe eventually stop expanding and start contracting, or will it expand forever? To answer
this question we need to know the present rate of expansion of the universe
and its present average density. If the density is less than a certain critical
value, determined by the rate of expansion, the gravitational attraction will be
too weak to halt the expansion. If the density is greater than the critical value,
gravity will stop the expansion at some time in the future and cause the
universe to recollapse.
We can determine the present rate of expansion by measuring the velocities at
which other galaxies are moving away from us, using the Doppler effect. This
25

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

can be done very accurately. However, the distances to the galaxies are not
very well known because we can only measure them indirectly. So all we know
is that the universe is expanding by between 5 percent and 10 percent every
thousand million years. However, our uncertainty about the present average
density of the universe is even greater.
If we add up the masses of all the stars that we can see in our galaxy and other
galaxies, the total is less than one-hundredth of the amount required to halt
the expansion of the universe, even in the lowest estimate of the rate of expansion. But we know that our galaxy and other galaxies must contain a large
amount of dark matter which we cannot see directly, but which we know must
be there because of the influence of its gravitational attraction on the orbits of
stars and gas in the galaxies. Moreover, most galaxies are found in clusters, and
we can similarly infer the presence of yet more dark matter in between the
galaxies in these clusters by its effect on the motion of the galaxies. When we
add up all this dark matter, we still get only about one-tenth of the amount
required to halt the expansion. However, there might be some other form of
matter which we have not yet detected and which might still raise the average
density of the universe up to the critical value needed to halt the expansion.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The present evidence, therefore, suggests that the universe will probably
expand forever. But don’t bank on it. All we can really be sure of is that even
26

THE

EXPANDING

UNIVERSE

if the universe is going to recollapse, it won’t do so for at least another ten
thousand million years, since it has already been expanding for at least that
long. This should not unduly worry us since by that time, unless we have
colonies beyond the solar system, mankind will long since have died out,
extinguished along with the death of our sun.

THE BIG BANG
All of the Friedmann solutions have the feature that at some time in the
past, between ten and twenty thousand million years ago, the distance
between neighboring galaxies must have been zero. At that time, which we
call the big bang, the density of the universe and the curvature of space-time
would have been infinite. This means that the general theory of relativity—
on which Friedmann’s solutions are based—predicts that there is a singular
point in the universe.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

All our theories of science are formulated on the assumption that space–time
is smooth and nearly flat, so they would all break down at the big bang singularity, where the curvature of space–time is infinite. This means that even if
there were events before the big bang, one could not use them to determine
what would happen afterward, because predictability would break down at the
big bang. Correspondingly, if we know only what has happened since the big
27

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

bang, we could not determine what happened beforehand. As far as we are
concerned, events before the big bang can have no consequences, so they
should not form part of a scientific model of the universe. We should therefore
cut them out of the model and say that time had a beginning at the big bang.
Many people do not like the idea that time has a beginning, probably because
it smacks of divine intervention. (The Catholic church, on the other hand, had
seized on the big bang model and in 1951 officially pronounced it to be in
accordance with the Bible.) There were a number of attempts to avoid the conclusion that there had been a big bang. The proposal that gained widest support
was called the steady state theory. It was suggested in 1948 by two refugees from
Nazi–occupied Austria, Hermann Bondi and Thomas Gold, together with the
Briton Fred Hoyle, who had worked with them on the development of radar
during the war. The idea was that as the galaxies moved away from each other,
new galaxies were continually forming in the gaps in between, from new
matter that was being continually created. The universe would therefore look
roughly the same at all times as well as at all points of space.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The steady state theory required a modification of general relativity to allow
for the continual creation of matter, but the rate that was involved was so
low—about one particle per cubic kilometer per year—that it was not in conflict with experiment. The theory was a good scientific theory, in the sense
28

THE

EXPANDING

UNIVERSE

that it was simple and it made definite predictions that could be tested by
observation. One of these predictions was that the number of galaxies or similar objects in any given volume of space should be the same wherever and
whenever we look in the universe.
In the late 1950s and early 1960s, a survey of sources of radio waves from outer
space was carried out at Cambridge by a group of astronomers led by Martin
Ryle. The Cambridge group showed that most of these radio sources must lie
outside our galaxy, and also that there were many more weak sources than
strong ones. They interpreted the weak sources as being the more distant ones,
and the stronger ones as being near. Then there appeared to be fewer sources
per unit volume of space for the nearby sources than for the distant ones.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

This could have meant that we were at the center of a great region in the universe in which the sources were fewer than elsewhere. Alternatively, it could
have meant that the sources were more numerous in the past, at the time that
the radio waves left on their journey to us, than they are now. Either explanation contradicted the predictions of the steady state theory. Moreover, the
discovery of the microwave radiation by Penzias and Wilson in 1965 also indicated that the universe must have been much denser in the past. The steady
state theory therefore had regretfully to be abandoned.

29

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

Another attempt to avoid the conclusion that there must have been a big bang
and, therefore, a beginning of time, was made by two Russian scientists,
Evgenii Lifshitz and Isaac Khalatnikov, in 1963. They suggested that the big
bang might be a peculiarity of Friedmann’s models alone, which after all were
only approximations to the real universe. Perhaps, of all the models that were
roughly like the real universe, only Friedmann’s would contain a big bang singularity. In Friedmann’s models, the galaxies are all moving directly away from
each other. So it is not surprising that at some time in the past they were all at
the same place. In the real universe, however, the galaxies are not just moving
directly away from each other—they also have small sideways velocities. So in
reality they need never have been all at exactly the same place, only very close
together. Perhaps, then, the current expanding universe resulted not from a big
bang singularity, but from an earlier contracting phase; as the universe had collapsed, the particles in it might not have all collided, but they might have
flown past and then away from each other, producing the present expansion of
the universe. How then could we tell whether the real universe should have
started out with a big bang?

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

What Lifshitz and Khalatnikov did was to study models of the universe which
were roughly like Friedmann’s models but which took account of the irregularities and random velocities of galaxies in the real universe. They showed that
such models could start with a big bang, even though the galaxies were no
30

THE

EXPANDING

UNIVERSE

longer always moving directly away from each other. But they claimed that
this was still only possible in certain exceptional models in which the galaxies
were all moving in just the right way. They argued that since there seemed to
be infinitely more Friedmann-like models without a big bang singularity than
there were with one, we should conclude that it was very unlikely that there
had been a big bang. They later realized, however, that there was a much more
general class of Friedmann-like models which did have singularities, and in
which the galaxies did not have to be moving in any special way. They therefore withdrew their claim in 1970.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The work of Lifshitz and Khalatnikov was valuable because it showed that the
universe could have had a singularity—a big bang—if the general theory of relativity was correct. However, it did not resolve the crucial question: Does general relativity predict that our universe should have the big bang, a beginning
of time? The answer to this came out of a completely different approach started by a British physicist, Roger Penrose, in 1965. He used the way light cones
behave in general relativity, and the fact that gravity is always attractive, to
show that a star that collapses under its own gravity is trapped in a region whose
boundary eventually shrinks to zero size. This means that all the matter in the
star will be compressed into a region of zero volume, so the density of matter
and the curvature of space-time become infinite. In other words, one has a singularity contained within a region of space-time known as a black hole.
31

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

At first sight, Penrose’s result didn’t have anything to say about the question
of whether there was a big bang singularity in the past. However, at the time
that Penrose produced his theorem, I was a research student desperately looking for a problem with which to complete my Ph.D. thesis. I realized that if one
reversed the direction of time in Penrose’s theorem so that the collapse became
an expansion, the conditions of his theorem would still hold, provided the
universe were roughly like a Friedmann model on large scales at the present
time. Penrose’s theorem had shown that any collapsing star must end in a
singularity; the time-reversed argument showed that any Friedmann-like
expanding universe must have begun with a singularity. For technical reasons,
Penrose’s theorem required that the universe be infinite in space. So I could
use it to prove that there should be a singularity only if the universe was
expanding fast enough to avoid collapsing again, because only that Friedmann
model was infinite in space.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

During the next few years I developed new mathematical techniques to
remove this and other technical conditions from the theorems that proved
that singularities must occur. The final result was a joint paper by Penrose
and myself in 1970, which proved that there must have been a big bang singularity provided only that general relativity is correct and that the universe
contains as much matter as we observe.

32

THE

EXPANDING

UNIVERSE

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

There was a lot of opposition to our work, partly from the Russians, who
followed the party line laid down by Lifshitz and Khalatnikov, and partly from
people who felt that the whole idea of singularities was repugnant and spoiled
the beauty of Einstein’s theory. However, one cannot really argue with the
mathematical theorem. So it is now generally accepted that the universe must
have a beginning.

33

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

THIRD
LECTURE

BLACK HOLES

BLACK

HOLES

T

he term black hole is of very recent origin. It was coined in 1969 by the
American scientist John Wheeler as a graphic description of an idea that
goes back at least two hundred years. At that time there were two theories
about light. One was that it was composed of particles; the other was that it
was made of waves. We now know that really both theories are correct. By the
wave/particle duality of quantum mechanics, light can be regarded as both a
wave and a particle. Under the theory that light was made up of waves, it was
not clear how it would respond to gravity. But if light were composed of particles, one might expect them to be affected by gravity in the same way that
cannonballs, rockets, and planets are.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

On this assumption, a Cambridge don, John Michell, wrote a paper in 1783
in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. In it, he pointed out that a star that was sufficiently massive and compact would have such
a strong gravitational field that light could not escape. Any light emitted
from the surface of the star would be dragged back by the star's gravitational
attraction before it could get very far. Michell suggested that there might be
a large number of stars like this. Although we would not be able to see them
because the light from them would not reach us, we would still feel their gravitational attraction. Such objects are what we now call black holes, because
that is what they are—black voids in space.

37

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

A similar suggestion was made a few years later by the French scientist the
Marquis de Laplace, apparently independently of Michell. Interestingly
enough, he included it in only the first and second editions of his book, The
System of the World, and left it out of later editions; perhaps he decided that it
was a crazy idea. In fact, it is not really consistent to treat light like cannonballs in Newton's theory of gravity because the speed of light is fixed. A cannonball fired upward from the Earth will be slowed down by gravity and will
eventually stop and fall back. A photon, however, must continue upward at a
constant speed. How, then, can Newtonian gravity affect light? A consistent
theory of how gravity affects light did not come until Einstein proposed general relativity in 1915; and even then it was a long time before the implications of the theory for massive stars were worked out.
To understand how a black hole might be formed, we first need an understanding of the life cycle of a star. A star is formed when a large amount of gas, mostly hydrogen, starts to collapse in on itself due to its gravitational attraction. As
it contracts, the atoms of the gas collide with each other more and more frequently and at greater and greater speeds—the gas heats up. Eventually the gas
will be so hot that when the hydrogen atoms collide they no longer bounce off
each other but instead merge with each other to form helium atoms. The heat
released in this reaction, which is like a controlled hydrogen bomb, is what
makes the stars shine. This additional heat also increases the pressure of the
38

BLACK

HOLES

gas until it is sufficient to balance the gravitational attraction, and the gas
stops contracting. It is a bit like a balloon where there is a balance between the
pressure of the air inside, which is trying to make the balloon expand, and the
tension in the rubber, which is trying to make the balloon smaller.
The stars will remain stable like this for a long time, with the heat from the
nuclear reactions balancing the gravitational attraction. Eventually, however,
the star will run out of its hydrogen and other nuclear fuels. And paradoxically, the more fuel a star starts off with, the sooner it runs out. This is because
the more massive the star is, the hotter it needs to be to balance its gravitational attraction. And the hotter it is, the faster it will use up its fuel. Our sun
has probably got enough fuel for another five thousand million years or so, but
more massive stars can use up their fuel in as little as one hundred million
years, much less than the age of the universe. When the star runs out of fuel,
it will start to cool off and so to contract. What might happen to it then was
only first understood at the end of the 1920s.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In 1928 an Indian graduate student named Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar set
sail for England to study at Cambridge with the British astronomer Sir Arthur
Eddington. Eddington was an expert on general relativity. There is a story that
a journalist told Eddington in the early 1920s that he had heard there were
39

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

only three people in the world who understood general relativity. Eddington
replied, “I am trying to think who the third person is.”
During his voyage from India, Chandrasekhar worked out how big a star could
be and still separate itself against its own gravity after it had used up all its
fuel. The idea was this: When the star becomes small, the matter particles get
very near each other. But the Pauli exclusion principle says that two matter
particles cannot have both the same position and the same velocity. The matter particles must therefore have very different velocities. This makes them
move away from each other, and so tends to make the star expand. A star can
therefore maintain itself at a constant radius by a balance between the attraction of gravity and the repulsion that arises from the exclusion principle, just
as earlier in its life the gravity was balanced by the heat.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Chandrasekhar realized, however, that there is a limit to the repulsion that the
exclusion principle can provide. The theory of relativity limits the maximum
difference in the velocities of the matter particles in the star to the speed of
light. This meant that when the star got sufficiently dense, the repulsion
caused by the exclusion principle would be less than the attraction of gravity.
Chandrasekhar calculated that a cold star of more than about one and a half
times the mass of the sun would not be able to support itself against its own
gravity. This mass is now known as the Chandrasekhar limit.
40

BLACK

HOLES

This had serious implications for the ultimate fate of massive stars. If a star's
mass is less than the Chandrasekhar limit, it can eventually stop contracting
and settle down to a possible final state as a white dwarf with a radius of a few
thousand miles and a density of hundreds of tons per cubic inch. A white dwarf
is supported by the exclusion principle repulsion between the electrons in its
matter. We observe a large number of these white dwarf stars. One of the first
to be discovered is the star that is orbiting around Sirius, the brightest star in
the night sky.
It was also realized that there was another possible final state for a star also
with a limiting mass of about one or two times the mass of the sun, but much
smaller than even the white dwarf. These stars would be supported by the
exclusion principle repulsion between the neutrons and protons, rather than
between the electrons. They were therefore called neutron stars. They would
have had a radius of only ten miles or so and a density of hundreds of millions
of tons per cubic inch. At the time they were first predicted, there was no way
that neutron stars could have been observed, and they were not detected until
much later.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Stars with masses above the Chandrasekhar limit, on the other hand, have a
big problem when they come to the end of their fuel. In some cases they may
explode or manage to throw off enough matter to reduce their mass below the
41

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

limit, but it was difficult to believe that this always happened, no matter how
big the star. How would it know that it had to lose weight? And even if every
star managed to lose enough mass, what would happen if you added more mass
to a white dwarf or neutron star to take it over the limit? Would it collapse to
infinite density?
Eddington was shocked by the implications of this and refused to believe
Chandrasekhar's result. He thought it was simply not possible that a star could
collapse to a point. This was the view of most scientists. Einstein himself wrote
a paper in which he claimed that stars would not shrink to zero size.The hostility of other scientists, particularly of Eddington, his former teacher and the
leading authority on the structure of stars, persuaded Chandrasekhar to abandon this line of work and turn instead to other problems in astronomy.
However, when he was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1983, it was, at least in
part, for his early work on the limiting mass of cold stars.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Chandrasekhar had shown that the exclusion principle could not halt the collapse of a star more massive than the Chandrasekhar limit. But the problem of
understanding what would happen to such a star, according to general relativity, was not solved until 1939 by a young American, Robert Oppenheimer. His
result, however, suggested that there would be no observational consequences
that could be detected by the telescopes of the day. Then the war intervened
42

BLACK

HOLES

and Oppenheimer himself became closely involved in the atom bomb project.
And after the war the problem of gravitational collapse was largely forgotten
as most scientists were then interested in what happens on the scale of the
atom and its nucleus. In the 1960s, however, interest in the large-scale problems of astronomy and cosmology was revived by a great increase in the number and range of astronomical observations brought about by the application
of modern technology. Oppenheimer’s work was then rediscovered and
extended by a number of people.
The picture that we now have from Oppenheimer’s work is as follows: The
gravitational field of the star changes the paths of light rays in space–time from
what they would have been had the star not been present. The light cones,
which indicate the paths followed in space and time by flashes of light emitted from their tips, are bent slightly inward near the surface of the star. This
can be seen in the bending of light from distant stars that is observed during
an eclipse of the sun. As the star contracts, the gravitational field at its surface
gets stronger and the light cones get bent inward more. This makes it more
difficult for light from the star to escape, and the light appears dimmer and
redder to an observer at a distance.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Eventually, when the star has shrunk to a certain critical radius, the gravitational field at the surface becomes so strong that the light cones are bent
43

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

inward so much that the light can no longer escape. According to the theory
of relativity, nothing can travel faster than light. Thus, if light cannot escape,
neither can anything else. Everything is dragged back by the gravitational
field. So one has a set of events, a region of space–time, from which it is not
possible to escape to reach a distant observer. This region is what we now call
a black hole. Its boundary is called the event horizon. It coincides with the
paths of the light rays that just fail to escape from the black hole.
In order to understand what you would see if you were watching a star collapse
to form a black hole, one has to remember that in the theory of relativity there
is no absolute time. Each observer has his own measure of time. The time for
someone on a star will be different from that for someone at a distance, because
of the gravitational field of the star. This effect has been measured in an experiment on Earth with clocks at the top and bottom of a water tower. Suppose
an intrepid astronaut on the surface of the collapsing star sent a signal every
second, according to his watch, to his spaceship orbiting about the star. At
some time on his watch, say eleven o’clock, the star would shrink below the
critical radius at which the gravitational field became so strong that the signals
would no longer reach the spaceship.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

His companions watching from the spaceship would find the intervals between
successive signals from the astronaut getting longer and longer as eleven
44

BLACK

HOLES

o’clock approached. However, the effect would be very small before 10:59:59.
They would have to wait only very slightly more than a second between the
astronaut’s 10:59:58 signal and the one that he sent when his watch read
10:59:59, but they would have to wait forever for the eleven o’clock signal.
The light waves emitted from the surface of the star between 10:59:59 and
eleven o’clock, by the astronaut’s watch, would be spread out over an infinite
period of time, as seen from the spaceship.
The time interval between the arrival of successive waves at the spaceship
would get longer and longer, and so the light from the star would appear
redder and redder and fainter and fainter. Eventually the star would be so dim
that it could no longer be seen from the spaceship. All that would be left would
be a black hole in space. The star would, however, continue to exert the same
gravitational force on the spaceship. This is because the star is still visible to
the spaceship, at least in principle. It is just that the light from the surface is
so red-shifted by the gravitational field of the star that it cannot be seen.
However, the red shift does not affect the gravitational field of the star itself.
Thus, the spaceship would continue to orbit the black hole.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The work that Roger Penrose and I did between 1965 and 1970 showed that,
according to general relativity, there must be a singularity of infinite density
within the black hole. This is rather like the big bang at the beginning of time,
45

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

only it would be an end of time for the collapsing body and the astronaut. At
the singularity, the laws of science and our ability to predict the future would
break down. However, any observer who remained outside the black hole
would not be affected by this failure of predictability, because neither light nor
any other signal can reach them from the singularity.
This remarkable fact led Roger Penrose to propose the cosmic censorship
hypothesis, which might be paraphrased as “God abhors a naked singularity.”
In other words, the singularities produced by gravitational collapse occur only
in places like black holes, where they are decently hidden from outside view
by an event horizon. Strictly, this is what is known as the weak cosmic censorship hypothesis: protect obervers who remain outside the black hole from the
consequences of the breakdown of predictability that occurs at the singularity.
But it does nothing at all for the poor unfortunate astronaut who falls into the
hole. Shouldn’t God protect his modesty as well?

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

There are some solutions of the equations of general relativity in which it is
possible for our astronaut to see a naked singularity. He may be able to avoid
hitting the singularity and instead fall through a “worm hole” and come out in
another region of the universe. This would offer great possibilities for travel in
space and time, but unfortunately it seems that the solutions may all be highly unstable. The least disturbance, such as the presence of an astronaut, may
46

BLACK

HOLES

change them so that the astronaut cannot see the singularity until he hits it
and his time comes to an end. In other words, the singularity always lies in his
future and never in his past.
The strong version of the cosmic censorship hypothesis states that in a realistic solution, the singularities always lie either entirely in the future, like the
singularities of gravitational collapse, or entirely in the past, like the big bang.
It is greatly to be hoped that some version of the censorship hypothesis holds,
because close to naked singularities it may be possible to travel into the past.
While this would be fine for writers of science fiction, it would mean that no
one's life would ever be safe. Someone might go into the past and kill your
father or mother before you were conceived.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In a gravitational collapse to form a black hole, the movements would be
dammed by the emission of gravitational waves. One would therefore expect
that it would not be too long before the black hole would settle down to a stationary state. It was generally supposed that this final stationary state would
depend on the details of the body that had collapsed to form the black hole.
The black hole might have any shape or size, and its shape might not even be
fixed, but instead be pulsating.

47

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

However, in 1967, the study of black holes was revolutionized by a paper written in Dublin by Werner Israel. Israel showed that any black hole that is not
rotating must be perfectly round or spherical. Its size, moreover, would depend
only on its mass. It could, in fact, be described by a particular solution of
Einstein’s equations that had been known since 1917, when it had been found
by Karl Schwarzschild shortly after the discovery of general relativity. At first,
Israel’s result was interpreted by many people, including Israel himself, as evidence that black holes would form only from the collapse of bodies that were
perfectly round or spherical. As no real body would be perfectly spherical, this
meant that, in general, gravitational collapse would lead to naked singularities.
There was, however, a different interpretation of Israel’s result, which was
advocated by Roger Penrose and John Wheeler in particular. This was that a
black hole should behave like a ball of fluid. Although a body might start off
in an unspherical state, as it collapsed to form a black hole it would settle down
to a spherical state due to the emission of gravitational waves. Further calculations supported this view and it came to be adopted generally.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Israel’s result had dealt only with the case of black holes formed from nonrotating bodies. On the analogy with a ball of fluid, one would expect that a
black hole made by the collapse of a rotating body would not be perfectly
round. It would have a bulge round the equator caused by the effect of the rotation. We observe a small bulge like this in the sun, caused by its rotation once
48

BLACK

HOLES

every twenty-five days or so. In 1963, Roy Kerr, a New Zealander, had found a
set of black–hole solutions of the equations of general relativity more general
than the Schwarzschild solutions. These “Kerr” black holes rotate at a
constant rate, their size and shape depending only on their mass and rate of
rotation. If the rotation was zero, the black hole was perfectly round and the
solution was identical to the Schwarzschild solution. But if the rotation was
nonzero, the black hole bulged outward near its equator. It was therefore natural to conjecture that a rotating body collapsing to form a black hole would
end up in a state described by the Kerr solution.
In 1970, a colleague and fellow research student of mine, Brandon Carter, took
the first step toward proving this conjecture. He showed that, provided a stationary rotating black hole had an axis of symmetry, like a spinning top, its size
and shape would depend only on its mass and rate of rotation. Then, in 1971,
I proved that any stationary rotating black hole would indeed have such an
axis of symmetry. Finally, in 1973, David Robinson at Kings College, London,
used Carter’s and my results to show that the conjecture had been correct:
Such a black hole had indeed to be the Kerr solution.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

So after gravitational collapse a black hole must settle down into a state in
which it could be rotating, but not pulsating. Moreover, its size and shape
would depend only on its mass and rate of rotation, and not on the nature of
49

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

the body that had collapsed to form it. This result became known by the
maxim “A black hole has no hair.” It means that a very large amount of information about the body that has collapsed must be lost when a black hole is
formed, because afterward all we can possibly measure about the body is its
mass and rate of rotation. The significance of this will be seen in the next lecture. The no-hair theorem is also of great practical importance because it so
greatly restricts the possible types of black holes. One can therefore make
detailed models of objects that might contain black holes, and compare the
predictions of the models with observations.
Black holes are one of only a fairly small number of cases in the history of science where a theory was developed in great detail as a mathematical model
before there was any evidence from observations that it was correct. Indeed,
this used to be the main argument of opponents of black holes. How could one
believe in objects for which the only evidence was calculations based on the
dubious theory of general relativity?

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In 1963, however, Maarten Schmidt, an astronomer at the Mount Palomar
Observatory in California, found a faint, starlike object in the direction of the
source of radio waves called 3C273—that is, source number 273 in the third
Cambridge catalog of radio sources. When he measured the red shift of the
object, he found it was too large to be caused by a gravitational field: If it had
50

BLACK

HOLES

been a gravitational red shift, the object would have to be so massive and so
near to us that it would disturb the orbits of planets in the solar system. This
suggested that the red shift was instead caused by the expansion of the universe, which in turn meant that the object was a very long way away. And to
be visible at such a great distance, the object must be very bright and must be
emitting a huge amount of energy.
The only mechanism people could think of that would produce such large
quantities of energy seemed to be the gravitational collapse not just of a star
but of the whole central region of a galaxy. A number of other similar “quasistellar objects,” or quasars, have since been discovered, all with large red shifts.
But they are all too far away, and too difficult, to observe to provide conclusive evidence of black holes.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Further encouragement for the existence of black holes came in 1967 with the
discovery by a research student at Cambridge, Jocelyn Bell, of some objects in
the sky that were emitting regular pulses of radio waves. At first, Jocelyn and
her supervisor, Anthony Hewish, thought that maybe they had made contact
with an alien civilization in the galaxy. Indeed, at the seminar at which they
announced their discovery, I remember that they called the first four sources
to be found LGM 1–4, LGM standing for “Little Green Men.”

51

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

In the end, however, they and everyone else came to the less romantic conclusion that these objects, which were given the name pulsars, were in fact just
rotating neutron stars. They were emitting pulses of radio waves because of a
complicated indirection between their magnetic fields and surrounding matter.
This was bad news for writers of space westerns, but very hopeful for the small
number of us who believed in black holes at that time. It was the first positive
evidence that neutron stars existed. A neutron star has a radius of about ten
miles, only a few times the critical radius at which a star becomes a black hole.
If a star could collapse to such a small size, it was not unreasonable to expect
that other stars could collapse to even smaller size and become black holes.
How could we hope to detect a black hole, as by its very definition it does not
emit any light? It might seem a bit like looking for a black cat in a coal cellar.
Fortunately, there is a way, since as John Michell pointed out in his pioneering paper in 1783, a black hole still exerts a gravitational force on nearby
objects. Astronomers have observed a number of systems in which two stars
orbit around each other, attracted toward each other by gravity. They also
observed systems in which there is only one visible star that is orbiting around
some unseen companion.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

One cannot, of course, immediately conclude that the companion is a black
hole. It might merely be a star that is too faint to be seen. However, some of
52

BLACK

HOLES

these systems, like the one called Cygnus X-I, are also strong sources of X rays.
The best explanation for this phenomenon is that the X rays are generated by
matter that has been blown off the surface of the visible star. As it falls toward
the unseen companion, it develops a spiral motion—rather like water running
out of a bath—and it gets very hot, emitting X rays. For this mechanism to
work, the unseen object has to be very small, like a white dwarf, neutron star,
or black hole.
Now, from the observed motion of the visible star, one can determine the lowest possible mass of the unseen object. In the case of Cygnus X-I, this is about
six times the mass of the sun. According to Chandrasekhar’s result, this is too
much for the unseen object to be a white dwarf. It is also too large a mass to
be a neutron star. It seems, therefore, that it must be a black hole.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

There are other models to explain Cygnus X–I that do not include a black
hole, but they are all rather far-fetched. A black hole seems to be the only
really natural explanation of the observations. Despite this, I have a bet with
Kip Thorne of the California Institute of Technology that in fact Cygnus X–I
does not contain a black hole. This is a form of insurance policy for me. I have
done a lot of work on black holes, and it would all be wasted if it turned out
that black holes do not exist. But in that case, I would have the consolation of
winning my bet, which would bring me four years of the magazine Private Eye.
53

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

If black holes do exist, Kip will get only one year of Penthouse, because when
we made the bet in 1975, we were 80 percent certain that Cygnus was a black
hole. By now I would say that we are about 95 percent certain, but the bet has
yet to be settled.
There is evidence for black holes in a number of other systems in our galaxy,
and for much larger black holes at the centers of other galaxies and quasars.
One can also consider the possibility that there might be black holes with
masses much less than that of the sun. Such black holes could not be formed
by gravitational collapse, because their masses are below the Chandrasekhar
mass limit. Stars of this low mass can support themselves against the force of
gravity even when they have exhausted their nuclear fuel. So, low-mass black
holes could form only if matter were compressed to enormous densities by very
large external pressures. Such conditions could occur in a very big hydrogen
bomb. The physicist John Wheeler once calculated that if one took all the
heavy water in all the oceans of the world, one could build a hydrogen bomb
that would compress matter at the center so much that a black hole would be
created. Unfortunately, however, there would be no one left to observe it.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

A more practical possibility is that such low–mass black holes might have been
formed in the high temperatures and pressures of the very early universe. Black
holes could have been formed if the early universe had not been perfectly
54

BLACK

HOLES

smooth and uniform, because then a small region that was denser than average could be compressed in this way to form a black hole. But we know that
there must have been some irregularities, because otherwise the matter in the
universe would still be perfectly uniformly distributed at the present epoch,
instead of being clumped together in stars and galaxies.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Whether or not the irregularities required to account for stars and galaxies
would have led to the formation of a significant number of these primordial
black holes depends on the details of the conditions in the early universe. So
if we could determine how many primordial black holes there are now, we
would learn a lot about the very early stages of the universe. Primordial black
holes with masses more than a thousand million tons—the mass of a large
mountain—could be detected only by their gravitational influence on other
visible matter or on the expansion of the universe. However, as we shall
learn in the next lecture, black holes are not really black after all: They glow
like a hot body, and the smaller they are, the more they glow. So, paradoxically, smaller black holes might actually turn out to be easier to detect than
large ones.

55

FOURTH
LECTURE

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

BLACK HOLES AIN’T SO BLACK

BLACK

HOLES

AIN’T

SO

BLACK

B

efore 1970, my research on general relativity had concentrated mainly on
the question of whether there had been a big bang singularity. However,
one evening in November of that year, shortly after the birth of my daughter,
Lucy, I started to think about black holes as I was getting into bed. My disability made this rather a slow process, so I had plenty of time. At that date there
was no precise definition of which points in space-time lay inside a black hole
and which lay outside.
I had already discussed with Roger Penrose the idea of defining a black hole as
the set of events from which it was not possible to escape to a large distance.
This is now the generally accepted definition. It means that the boundary of
the black hole, the event horizon, is formed by rays of light that just fail to get
away from the black hole. Instead, they stay forever, hovering on the edge of
the black hole. It is like running away from the police and managing to keep
one step ahead but not being able to get clear away.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Suddenly I realized that the paths of these light rays could not be approaching
one another, because if they were, they must eventually run into each other. It
would be like someone else running away from the police in the opposite direction. You would both be caught or, in this case, fall into a black hole. But if
these light rays were swallowed up by the black hole, then they could not have

59

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

been on the boundary of the black hole. So light rays in the event horizon had
to be moving parallel to, or away from, each other.
Another way of seeing this is that the event horizon, the boundary of the black
hole, is like the edge of a shadow. It is the edge of the light of escape to a great
distance, but, equally, it is the edge of the shadow of impending doom. And if
you look at the shadow cast by a source at a great distance, such as the sun, you
will see that the rays of light on the edge are not approaching each other. If
the rays of light that form the event horizon, the boundary of the black hole,
can never approach each other, the area of the event horizon could stay the
same or increase with time. It could never decrease, because that would mean
that at least some of the rays of light in the boundary would have to be
approaching each other. In fact, the area would increase whenever matter or
radiation fell into the black hole.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Also, suppose two black holes collided and merged together to form a single
black hole. Then the area of the event horizon of the final black hole would
be greater than the sum of the areas of the event horizons of the original black
holes. This nondecreasing property of the event horizon’s area placed an
important restriction on the possible behavior of black holes. I was so excited
with my discovery that I did not get much sleep that night.

60

BLACK

HOLES

AIN’T

SO

BLACK

The next day I rang up Roger Penrose. He agreed with me. I think, in fact, that
he had been aware of this property of the area. However, he had been using a
slightly different definition of a black hole. He had not realized that the
boundaries of the black hole according to the two definitions would be the
same, provided the black hole had settled down to a stationary state.

THE SECOND LAW OF
THERMODYNAMICS
The nondecreasing behavior of a black hole’s area was very reminiscent of the
behavior of a physical quantity called entropy, which measures the degree of
disorder of a system. It is a matter of common experience that disorder will
tend to increase if things are left to themselves; one has only to leave a house
without repairs to see that. One can create order out of disorder—for example,
one can paint the house. However, that requires expenditure of energy, and so
decreases the amount of ordered energy available.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

A precise statement of this idea is known as the second law of thermodynamics. It states that the entropy of an isolated system never decreases with time.
Moreover, when two systems are joined together, the entropy of the combined
system is greater than the sum of the entropies of the individual systems. For
example, consider a system of gas molecules in a box. The molecules can be
61

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

thought of as little billiard balls continually colliding with each other and
bouncing off the walls of the box. Suppose that initially the molecules are all
confined to the left-hand side of the box by a partition. If the partition is then
removed, the molecules will tend to spread out and occupy both halves of the
box. At some later time they could, by chance, all be in the right half or all be
back in the left half. However, it is overwhelmingly more probable that there
will be roughly equal numbers in the two halves. Such a state is less ordered,
or more disordered, than the original state in which all the molecules were in
one half. One therefore says that the entropy of the gas has gone up.
Similarly, suppose one starts with two boxes, one containing oxygen molecules
and the other containing nitrogen molecules. If one joins the boxes together
and removes the intervening wall, the oxygen and the nitrogen molecules will
start to mix. At a later time, the most probable state would be to have a
thoroughly uniform mixture of oxygen and nitrogen molecules throughout the
two boxes. This state would be less ordered, and hence have more entropy,
than the initial state of two separate boxes.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The second law of thermodynamics has a rather different status than that of
other laws of science. Other laws, such as Newton’s law of gravity, for
example, are absolute law—that is, they always hold. On the other hand, the
second law is a statistical law—that is, it does not hold always, just in the vast
62

BLACK

HOLES

AIN’T

SO

BLACK

majority of cases. The probability of all the gas molecules in our box being
found in one half of the box at a later time is many millions of millions to one,
but it could happen.
However, if one has a black hole around, there seems to be a rather easier way
of violating the second law: Just throw some matter with a lot of entropy, such
as a box of gas, down the black hole. The total entropy of matter outside the
black hole would go down. One could, of course, still say that the total entropy,
including the entropy inside the black hole, has not gone down. But since
there is no way to look inside the black hole, we cannot see how much entropy
the matter inside it has. It would be nice, therefore, if there was some feature
of the black hole by which observers outside the black hole could tell its
entropy; this should increase whenever matter carrying entropy fell into the
black hole.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Following my discovery that the area of the event horizon increased whenever
matter fell into a black hole, a research student at Princeton named Jacob
Bekenstein suggested that the area of the event horizon was a measure of the
entropy of the black hole. As matter carrying entropy fell into the black hole,
the area of the event horizon would go up, so that the sum of the entropy of
matter outside black holes and the area of the horizons would never go down.

63

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

This suggestion seemed to prevent the second law of thermodynamics from
being violated in most situations. However, there was one fatal flaw: If a black
hole has entropy, then it ought also to have a temperature. But a body with a
nonzero temperature must emit radiation at a certain rate. It is a matter of
common experience that if one heats up a poker in the fire, it glows red hot
and emits radiation. However, bodies at lower temperatures emit radiation,
too; one just does not normally notice it because the amount is fairly small.
This radiation is required in order to prevent violations of the second law. So
black holes ought to emit radiation, but by their very definition, black holes
are objects that are not supposed to emit anything. It therefore seemed that the
area of the event horizon of a black hole could not be regarded as its entropy.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In fact, in 1972 I wrote a paper on this subject with Brandon Carter and an
American colleague, Jim Bardeen. We pointed out that, although there were
many similarities between entropy and the area of the event horizon, there was
this apparently fatal difficulty. I must admit that in writing this paper I was
motivated partly by irritation with Bekenstein, because I felt he had misused
my discovery of the increase of the area of the event horizon. However, it
turned out in the end that he was basically correct, though in a manner he had
certainly not expected.

64

BLACK

HOLES

AIN’T

SO

BLACK

BLACK HOLE RADIATION

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In September 1973, while I was visiting Moscow, I discussed black holes with
two leading Soviet experts, Yakov Zeldovich and Alexander Starobinsky. They
convinced me that, according to the quantum mechanical uncertainty principle, rotating black holes should create and emit particles. I believed their arguments on physical grounds, but I did not like the mathematical way in which
they calculated the emission. I therefore set about devising a better mathematical treatment, which I described at an informal seminar in Oxford at the end
of November 1973. At that time I had not done the calculations to find out
how much would actually be emitted. I was expecting to discover just the radiation that Zeldovich and Starobinsky had predicted from rotating black holes.
However, when I did the calculation, I found, to my surprise and annoyance,
that even nonrotating black holes should apparently create and emit particles
at a steady rate.
At first I thought that this emission indicated that one of the approximations
I had used was not valid. I was afraid if Bekenstein found out about it, he would
use it as a further argument to support his ideas about the entropy of black
holes, which I still did not like. However, the more I thought about it, the
more it seemed that the approximations really ought to hold. But what finally
convinced me that the emission was real was that the spectrum of the emitted
particles was exactly that which would be emitted by a hot body.
65

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

The black hole was emitting particles at exactly the correct rate to prevent
violations of the second law.
Since then, the calculations have been repeated in a number of different forms
by other people. They all confirm that a black hole ought to emit particles and
radiation as if it were a hot body with a temperature that depends only on the
black hole’s mass: the higher the mass, the lower the temperature. One can
understand this emission in the following way: What we think of as empty
space cannot be completely empty because that would mean that all the fields,
such as the gravitational field and the electromagnetic field, would have to be
exactly zero. However, the value of a field and its rate of change with time are
like the position and velocity of a particle. The uncertainty principle implies
that the more accurately one knows one of these quantities, the less accurately
one can know the other.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

So in empty space the field cannot be fixed at exactly zero, because then it
would have both a precise value, zero, and a precise rate of change, also zero.
Instead, there must be a certain minimum amount of uncertainty, or quantum
fluctuations, in the value of a field. One can think of these fluctuations as pairs
of particles of light or gravity that appear together at some time, move apart,
and then come together again and annihilate each other. These particles are
called virtual particles. Unlike real particles, they cannot be observed directly
66

BLACK

HOLES

AIN’T

SO

BLACK

with a particle detector. However, their indirect effects, such as small changes
in the energy of electron orbits and atoms, can be measured and agree with the
theoretical predictions to a remarkable degree of accuracy.
By conservation of energy, one of the partners in a virtual particle pair will
have positive energy and the other partner will have negative energy. The one
with negative energy is condemned to be a short-lived virtual particle. This is
because real particles always have positive energy in normal situations. It must
therefore seek out its partner and annihilate it. However, the gravitational
field inside a black hole is so strong that even a real particle can have negative
energy there.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

It is therefore possible, if a black hole is present, for the virtual particle with
negative energy to fall into the black hole and become a real particle. In this
case it no longer has to annihilate its partner; its forsaken partner may fall into
the black hole as well. But because it has positive energy, it is also possible for
it to escape to infinity as a real particle. To an observer at a distance, it will
appear to have been emitted from the black hole. The smaller the black hole,
the less far the particle with negative energy will have to go before it becomes
a real particle. Thus, the rate of emission will be greater, and the apparent temperature of the black hole will be higher.

67

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

The positive energy of the outgoing radiation would be balanced by a flow of
negative energy particles into the black hole. By Einstein's famous equation
E = mc2, energy is equivalent to mass. A flow of negative energy into the black
hole therefore reduces its mass. As the black hole loses mass, the area of its
event horizon gets smaller, but this decrease in the entropy of the black hole
is more than compensated for by the entropy of the emitted radiation, so the
second law is never violated.

BLACK HOLE EXPLOSIONS
The lower the mass of the black hole, the higher its temperature is. So as the
black hole loses mass, its temperature and rate of emission increase. It therefore loses mass more quickly. What happens when the mass of the black hole
eventually becomes extremely small is not quite clear. The most reasonable
guess is that it would disappear completely in a tremendous final burst of emission, equivalent to the explosion of millions of H-bombs.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

A black hole with a mass a few times that of the sun would have a temperature of only one ten-millionth of a degree above absolute zero. This is much
less than the temperature of the microwave radiation that fills the universe,
about 2.7 degrees above absolute zero—so such black holes would give off less
than they absorb, though even that would be very little. If the universe is des68

BLACK

HOLES

AIN’T

SO

BLACK

tined to go on expanding forever, the temperature of the microwave radiation
will eventually decrease to less than that of such a black hole. The hole will
then absorb less than it emits and will begin to lose mass. But, even then, its
temperature is so low that it would take about 1066years to evaporate
completely. This is much longer than the age of the universe, which is only
about 1010 years.
On the other hand, as we learned in the last lecture, there might be primordial black holes with a very much smaller mass that were made by the collapse
of irregularities in the very early stages of the universe. Such black holes would
have a much higher temperature and would be emitting radiation at a much
greater rate. A primordial black hole with an initial mass of a thousand million tons would have a lifetime roughly equal to the age of the universe.
Primordial black holes with initial masses less than this figure would already
have completely evaporated. However, those with slightly greater masses
would still be emitting radiation in the form of X rays and gamma rays. These
are like waves of light, but with a much shorter wavelength. Such holes
hardly deserve the epithet black. They really are white hot, and are emitting
energy at the rate of about ten thousand megawatts.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

One such black hole could run ten large power stations, if only we could harness its output. This would be rather difficult, however. The black hole would
69

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

have the mass of a mountain compressed into the size of the nucleus of an
atom. If you had one of these black holes on the surface of the Earth, there
would be no way to stop it falling through the floor to the center of the Earth.
It would oscillate through the Earth and back, until eventually it settled down
at the center. So the only place to put such a black hole, in which one might
use the energy that it emitted, would be in orbit around the Earth. And the
only way that one could get it to orbit the Earth would be to attract it there
by towing a large mass in front of it, rather like a carrot in front of a donkey.
This does not sound like a very practical proposition, at least not in the
immediate future.

THE SEARCH FOR PRIMORDIAL
BLACK HOLES

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

But even if we cannot harness the emission from these primordial black holes,
what are our chances of observing them? We could look for the gamma rays
that the primordial black holes emit during most of their lifetime. Although
the radiation from most would be very weak because they are far away, the
total from all of them might be detectable. We do, indeed, observe such a
background of gamma rays. However, this background was probably generated
by processes other than primordial black holes. One can say that the observations of the gamma ray background do not provide any positive evidence for
70

BLACK

HOLES

AIN’T

SO

BLACK

primordial black holes. But they tell us that, on average, there cannot be more
than three hundred little black holes in every cubic light-year in the universe.
This limit means that primordial black holes could make up at most one millionth of the average mass density in the universe.
With primordial black holes being so scarce, it might seem unlikely that there
would be one that was near enough for us to observe on its own. But since
gravity would draw primordial black holes toward any matter, they should be
much more common in galaxies. If they were, say, a million times more common in galaxies, then the nearest black hole to us would probably be at a
distance of about a thousand million kilometers, or about as far as Pluto, the
farthest known planet. At this distance it would still be very difficult to detect
the steady emission of a black hole even if it was ten thousand megawatts.
In order to observe a primordial black hole, one would have to detect several
gamma ray quanta coming from the same direction within a reasonable space
of time, such as a week.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Otherwise, they might simply be part of the background. But Planck’s quantum principle tells us that each gamma ray quantum has a very high energy,
because gamma rays have a very high frequency. So to radiate even ten thousand megawatts would not take many quanta. And to observe these few quan71

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

ta coming from the distance of Pluto would require a larger gamma ray detector than any that have been constructed so far. Moreover, the detector would
have to be in space, because gamma rays cannot penetrate the atmosphere.
Of course, if a black hole as close as Pluto were to reach the end of its life and
blow up, it would be easy to detect the final burst of emission. But if the black
hole has been emitting for the last ten or twenty thousand million years, the
chances of it reaching the end of its life within the next few years are really
rather small. It might equally well be a few million years in the past or future.
So in order to have a reasonable chance of seeing an explosion before your
research grant ran out, you would have to find a way to detect any explosions
within a distance of about one light-year. You would still have the problem of
needing a large gamma ray detector to observe several gamma ray quanta from
the explosion. However, in this case, it would not be necessary to determine
that all the quanta came from the same direction. It would be enough to
observe that they all arrived within a very short time interval to be reasonably
confident that they were coming from the same burst.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

One gamma ray detector that might be capable of spotting primordial black
holes is the entire Earth’s atmosphere. (We are, in any case, unlikely to be able
to build a larger detector.) When a high-energy gamma ray quantum hits the
atoms in our atmosphere, it creates pairs of electrons and positrons. When
72

BLACK

HOLES

AIN’T

SO

BLACK

these hit other atoms, they in turn create more pairs of electrons and positrons.
So one gets what is called an electron shower. The result is a form of light
called Cerenkov radiation. One can therefore detect gamma ray bursts by
looking for flashes of light in the night sky.
Of course, there are a number of other phenomena, such as lightning, which
can also give flashes in the sky. However, one could distinguish gamma ray
bursts from such effects by observing flashes simultaneously at two or more
thoroughly widely separated locations. A search like this has been carried out
by two scientists from Dublin, Neil Porter and Trevor Weekes, using telescopes
in Arizona. They found a number of flashes but none that could be definitely
ascribed to gamma ray bursts from primordial black holes.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Even if the search for primordial black holes proves negative, as it seems it
may, it will still give us important information about the very early stages of
the universe. If the early universe had been chaotic or irregular, or if the pressure of matter had been low, one would have expected it to produce many
more primordial black holes than the limit set by our observations of the
gamma ray background. It is only if the early universe was very smooth and
uniform, and with a high pressure, that one can explain the absence of
observable numbers of primordial black holes.

73

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

GENERAL RELATIVITY AND
QUANTUM MECHANICS
Radiation from black holes was the first example of a prediction that depended on both of the great theories of this century, general relativity and quantum
mechanics. It aroused a lot of opposition initially because it upset the existing
viewpoint: “How can a black hole emit anything?” When I first announced the
results of my calculations at a conference at the Rutherford Laboratory near
Oxford, I was greeted with general incredulity. At the end of my talk the chairman of the session, John G. Taylor from Kings College, London, claimed it was
all nonsense. He even wrote a paper to that effect.
However, in the end most people, including John Taylor, have come to the
conclusion that black holes must radiate like hot bodies if our other ideas
about general relativity and quantum mechanics are correct. Thus even
though we have not yet managed to find a primordial black hole, there is
fairly general agreement that if we did, it would have to be emitting a lot of
gamma and X rays. If we do find one, I will get the Nobel Prize.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The existence of radiation from black holes seems to imply that gravitational
collapse is not as final and irreversible as we once thought. If an astronaut falls
into a black hole, its mass will increase. Eventually, the energy equivalent of
74

BLACK

HOLES

AIN’T

SO

BLACK

that extra mass will be returned to the universe in the form of radiation. Thus,
in a sense, the astronaut will be recycled. It would be a poor sort of immortality, however, because any personal concept of time for the astronaut would
almost certainly come to an end as he was crushed out of existence inside the
black hole. Even the types of particle that were eventually emitted by the
black hole would in general be different from those that made up the astronaut. The only feature of the astronaut that would survive would be his mass
or energy.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The approximations I used to derive the emission from black holes should
work well when the black hole has a mass greater than a fraction of a gram.
However, they will break down at the end of the black hole's life, when its
mass gets very small. The most likely outcome seems to be that the black hole
would just disappear, at least from our region of the universe. It would take
with it the astronaut and any singularity there might be inside the black hole.
This was the first indication that quantum mechanics might remove the singularities that were predicted by classical general relativity. However, the
methods that I and other people were using in 1974 to study the quantum
effects of gravity were not able to answer questions such as whether singularities would occur in quantum gravity.

75

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

From 1975 onward, I therefore started to develop a more powerful approach to
quantum gravity based on Feynman’s idea of a sum over histories. The answers
that this approach suggests for the origin and fate of the universe will be
described in the next two lectures. We shall see that quantum mechanics
allows the universe to have a beginning that is not a singularity. This means
that the laws of physics need not break down at the origin of the universe. The
state of the universe and its contents, like ourselves, are completely determined by the laws of physics, up to the limit set by the uncertainty principle.
So much for free will.

76

FIFTH
LECTURE

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

THE ORIGIN AND FATE
OF THE UNIVERSE

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

T

hroughout the 1970s I had been working mainly on black holes. However,
in 1981 my interest in questions about the origin of the universe was
reawakened when I attended a conference on cosmology in the Vatican. The
Catholic church had made a bad mistake with Galileo when it tried to lay
down the law on a question of science, declaring that the sun went around the
Earth. Now, centuries later, it had decided it would be better to invite a number of experts to advise it on cosmology.
At the end of the conference the participants were granted an audience with
the pope. He told us that it was okay to study the evolution of the universe
after the big bang, but we should not inquire into the big bang itself because
that was the moment of creation and therefore the work of God.
I was glad then that he did not know the subject of the talk I had just given at
the conference. I had no desire to share the fate of Galileo; I have a lot of sympathy with Galileo, partly because I was born exactly three hundred years after
his death.

THE HOT BIG BANG MODEL

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In order to explain what my paper was about, I shall first describe the generally
accepted history of the universe, according to what is known as the “hot big
79

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

bang model.” This assumes that the universe is described by a Friedmann
model, right back to the big bang. In such models one finds that as the universe expands, the temperature of the matter and radiation in it will go down.
Since temperature is simply a measure of the average energy of the particles,
this cooling of the universe will have a major effect on the matter in it. At very
high temperatures, particles will be moving around so fast that they can escape
any attraction toward each other caused by the nuclear or electromagnetic
forces. But as they cooled off, one would expect particles that attract each
other to start to clump together.
At the big bang itself, the universe had zero size and so must have been infinitely hot. But as the universe expanded, the temperature of the radiation
would have decreased. One second after the big bang it would have fallen to
about ten thousand million degrees. This is about a thousand times the temperature at the center of the sun, but temperatures as high as this are reached
in H-bomb explosions. At this time the universe would have contained mostly
photons, electrons, and neutrinos and their antiparticles, together with some
protons and neutrons.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

As the universe continued to expand and the temperature to drop, the rate at
which electrons and the electron pairs were being produced in collisions would
have fallen below the rate at which they were being destroyed by annihilation.
80

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

So most of the electrons and antielectrons would have annihilated each other
to produce more photons, leaving behind only a few electrons.
About one hundred seconds after the big bang, the temperature would have
fallen to one thousand million degrees, the temperature inside the hottest
stars. At this temperature, protons and neutrons would no longer have sufficient energy to escape the attraction of the strong nuclear force. They would
start to combine together to produce the nuclei of atoms of deuterium, or
heavy hydrogen, which contain one proton and one neutron. The deuterium
nuclei would then have combined with more protons and neutrons to make
helium nuclei, which contained two protons and two neutrons. There would
also be small amounts of a couple of heavier elements, lithium and beryllium.
One can calculate that in the hot big bang model about a quarter of the protons and neutrons would have been converted into helium nuclei, along with
a small amount of heavy hydrogen and other elements. The remaining neutrons would have decayed into protons, which are the nuclei of ordinary
hydrogen atoms. These predictions agree very well with what is observed.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The hot big bang model also predicts that we should be able to observe the
radiation left over from the hot early stages. However, the temperature would
have been reduced to a few degrees above absolute zero by the expansion of the
81

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

universe. This is the explanation of the microwave background of radiation
that was discovered by Penzias and Wilson in 1965. We are therefore
thoroughly confident that we have the right picture, at least back to about one
second after the big bang. Within only a few hours of the big bang, the
production of helium and other elements would have stopped. And after that,
for the next million years or so, the universe would have just continued
expanding, without anything much happening. Eventually, once the temperature had dropped to a few thousand degrees, the electrons and nuclei would no
longer have had enough energy to overcome the electromagnetic attraction
between them. They would then have started combining to form atoms.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The universe as a whole would have continued expanding and cooling.
However, in regions that were slightly denser than average, the expansion
would have been slowed down by extra gravitational attraction. This would
eventually stop expansion in some regions and cause them to start to recollapse. As they were collapsing, the gravitational pull of matter outside these
regions might start them rotating slightly. As the collapsing region got
smaller, it would spin faster—just as skaters spinning on ice spin faster as the
draw in their arms. Eventually, when the region got small enough, it would be
spinning fast enough to balance the attraction of gravity. In this way, disklike
rotating galaxies were born.

82

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

As time went on, the gas in the galaxies would break up into smaller clouds
that would collapse under their own gravity. As these contracted, the temperature of the gas would increase until it became hot enough to start nuclear
reactions. These would convert the hydrogen into more helium, and the heat
given off would raise the pressure, and so stop the clouds from contracting any
further. They would remain in this state for a long time as stars like our sun,
burning hydrogen into helium and radiating the energy as heat and light.
More massive stars would need to be hotter to balance their stronger gravitational attraction. This would make the nuclear fusion reactions proceed so
much more rapidly that they would use up their hydrogen in as little as a hundred million years. They would then contract slightly and, as they heated up
further, would start to convert helium into heavier elements like carbon or
oxygen. This, however, would not release much more energy, so a crisis would
occur, as I described in my lecture on black holes.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

What happens next is not completely clear, but it seems likely that the central
regions of the star would collapse to a very dense state, such as a neutron star
or black hole. The outer regions of the star may get blown off in a tremendous
explosion called a supernova, which would outshine all the other stars in the
galaxy. Some of the heavier elements produced near the end of the star’s life
83

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

would be flung back into the gas in the galaxy. They would provide some of
the raw material for the next generation of stars.
Our own sun contains about 2 percent of these heavier elements because it is
a second– or third–generation star. It was formed some five thousand million
years ago out of a cloud of rotating gas containing the debris of earlier supernovas. Most of the gas in that cloud went to form the sun or got blown away.
However, a small amount of the heavier elements collected together to form
the bodies that now orbit the sun as planets like the Earth.

OPEN QUESTIONS
This picture of a universe that started off very hot and cooled as it expanded is
in agreement with all the observational evidence that we have today.
Nevertheless, it leaves a number of important questions unanswered. First, why
was the early universe so hot? Second, why is the universe so uniform on a large
scale—why does it look the same at all points of space and in all directions?

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Third, why did the universe start out with so nearly the critical rate of expansion to just avoid recollapse? If the rate of expansion one second after the big
bang had been smaller by even one part in a hundred thousand million
million, the universe would have recollapsed before it ever reached its present
84

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

size. On the other hand, if the expansion rate at one second had been larger
by the same amount, the universe would have expanded so much that it would
be effectively empty now.
Fourth, despite the fact that the universe is so uniform and homogenous on a
large scale, it contains local lumps such as stars and galaxies. These are thought
to have developed from small differences in the density of the early universe
from one region to another. What was the origin of these density fluctuations?

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The general theory of relativity, on its own, cannot explain these features or
answer these questions. This is because it predicts that the universe started off
with infinite density at the big bang singularity. At the singularity, general relativity and all other physical laws would break down. One cannot predict what
would come out of the singularity. As I explained before, this means that one
might as well cut any events before the big bang out of the theory, because they
can have no effect on what we observe. Space–time would have a boundary—
a beginning at the big bang. Why should the universe have started off at the
big bang in just such a way as to lead to the state we observe today? Why is the
universe so uniform, and expanding at just the critical rate to avoid recollapse?
One would feel happier about this if one could show that quite a number of
different initial configurations for the universe would have evolved to produce
a universe like the one we observe.
85

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

If this is the case, a universe that developed from some sort of random initial
conditions should contain a number of regions that are like what we observe.
There might also be regions that were very different. However, these regions
would probably not be suitable for the formation of galaxies and stars. These
are essential prerequisites for the development of intelligent life, at least as we
know it. Thus, these regions would not contain any beings to observe that they
were different.
When one considers cosmology, one has to take into account the selection
principle that we live in a region of the universe that is suitable for intelligent
life. This fairly obvious and elementary consideration is sometimes called the
anthropic principle. Suppose, on the other hand, that the initial state of the
universe had to be chosen extremely carefully to lead to something like what
we see around us. Then the universe would be unlikely to contain any region
in which life would appear.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In the hot big bang model that I described earlier, there was not enough time
in the early universe for heat to have flowed from one region to another. This
means that different regions of the universe would have had to have started
out with exactly the same temperature in order to account for the fact that the
microwave background has the same temperature in every direction we look.
Also, the initial rate of expansion would have had to be chosen very precisely
86

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

for the universe not to have recollapsed before now. This means that the initial state of the universe must have been very carefully chosen indeed if the
hot big bang model was correct right back to the beginning of time. It would
be very difficult to explain why the universe should have begun in just this
way, except as the act of a God who intended to create beings like us.

THE INFLATIONARY MODEL

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In order to avoid this difficulty with the very early stages of the hot big bang
model, Alan Guth at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology put forward a
new model. In this, many different initial configurations could have evolved to
something like the present universe. He suggested that the early universe might
have had a period of very rapid, or exponential, expansion. This expansion is
said to be inflationary—an analogy with the inflation in prices that occurs to a
greater or lesser degree in every country. The world record for price inflation
was probably in Germany after the first war, when the price of a loaf of bread
went from under a mark to millions of marks in a few months. But the inflation
we think may have occurred in the size of the universe was much greater even
than that—a million million million million million times in only a tiny fraction of a second. Of course, that was before the present government.

87

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

Guth suggested that the universe started out from the big bang very hot. One
would expect that at such high temperatures, the strong and weak nuclear
forces and the electromagnetic force would all be unified into a single force.
As the universe expanded, it would cool, and particle energies would go down.
Eventually there would be what is called a phase transition, and the symmetry
between the forces would be broken. The strong force would become different
from the weak and electromagnetic forces. One common example of a phase
transition is the freezing of water when you cool it down. Liquid water is symmetrical, the same at every point and in every direction. However, when ice
crystals form, they will have definite positions and will be lined up in some
direction. This breaks the symmetry of the water.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In the case of water, if one is careful, one can “supercool” it. That is, one can
reduce the temperature below the freezing point—0 degrees centigrade—without ice forming. Guth suggested that the universe might behave in a similar
way: The temperature might drop below the critical value without the symmetry between the forces being broken. If this happened, the universe would be
in an unstable state, with more energy than if the symmetry had been broken.
This special extra energy can be shown to have an antigravitational effect. It
would act just like a cosmological constant.

88

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

Einstein introduced the cosmological constant into general relativity when he
was trying to construct a static model of the universe. However,in this case,
the universe would already be expanding. The repulsive effect of this cosmological constant would therefore have made the universe expand at an everincreasing rate. Even in regions where there were more matter particles than
average, the gravitational attraction of the matter would have been outweighed by the repulsion of the effective cosmological constant. Thus, these
regions would also expand in an accelerating inflationary manner.
As the universe expanded, the matter particles got farther apart. One would be
left with an expanding universe that contained hardly any particles. It would
still be in the supercooled state, in which the symmetry between the forces is
not broken. Any irregularities in the universe would simply have been
smoothed out by the expansion, as the wrinkles in a balloon are smoothed
away when you blow it up. Thus, the present smooth and uniform state of the
universe could have evolved from many different nonuniform initial states.
The rate of expansion would also tend toward just the critical rate needed to
avoid recollapse.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Moreover, the idea of inflation could also explain why there is so much matter
in the universe. There are something like 1,080 particles in the region of the
universe that we can observe. Where did they all come from? The answer is
89

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

that, in quantum theory, particles can be created out of energy in the form of
particle/antiparticle pairs. But that just raises the question of where the energy
came from. The answer is that the total energy of the universe is exactly zero.
The matter in the universe is made out of positive energy. However, the matter is all attracting itself by gravity. Two pieces of matter that are close to each
other have less energy than the same two pieces a long way apart. This is
because you have to expend energy to separate them. You have to pull against
the gravitational force attracting them together. Thus, in a sense, the gravitational field has negative energy. In the case of the whole universe, one can
show that this negative gravitational energy exactly cancels the positive energy of the matter. So the total energy of the universe is zero.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Now, twice zero is also zero. Thus, the universe can double the amount of positive matter energy and also double the negative gravitational energy without
violation of the conservation of energy. This does not happen in the normal
expansion of the universe in which the matter energy density goes down as the
universe gets bigger. It does happen, however, in the inflationary expansion,
because the energy density of the supercooled state remains constant while the
universe expands. When the universe doubles in size, the positive matter energy and the negative gravitational energy both double, so the total energy
remains zero. During the inflationary phase, the universe increases its size by a
90

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

very large amount. Thus, the total amount of energy available to make particles becomes very large. As Guth has remarked, “It is said that there is no such
thing as a free lunch. But the universe is the ultimate free lunch.”

THE END OF INFLATION
The universe is not expanding in an inflationary way today. Thus, there had
to be some mechanism that would eliminate the very large effective cosmological constant. This would change the rate of expansion from an accelerated
one to one that is slowed down by gravity, as we have today. As the universe
expanded and cooled, one might expect that eventually the symmetry between
the forces would be broken, just as supercooled water always freezes in the end.
The extra energy of the unbroken symmetry state would then be released and
would reheat the universe. The universe would then go on to expand and cool,
just like the hot big bang model. However, there would now be an explanation
of why the universe was expanding at exactly the critical rate and why different regions had the same temperature.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In Guth’s original proposal, the transition to broken symmetry was supposed to
occur suddenly, rather like the appearance of ice crystals in very cold water.
The idea was that “bubbles” of the new phase of broken symmetry would have
formed in the old phase, like bubbles of steam surrounded by boiling water.
91

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

The bubbles were supposed to expand and meet up with each other until the
whole universe was in the new phase. The trouble was, as I and several other
people pointed out, the universe was expanding so fast that the bubbles would
be moving away from each other too rapidly to join up. The universe would be
left in a very nonuniform state, with some regions having symmetry between
the different forces. Such a model of the universe would not correspond to
what we see.
In October 1981 I went to Moscow for a conference on quantum gravity. After
the conference, I gave a seminar on the inflationary model and its problems at
the Sternberg Astronomical Institute. In the audience was a young Russian,
Andrei Linde. He said that the difficulty with the bubbles not joining up could
be avoided if the bubbles were very big. In this case, our region of the universe
could be contained inside a single bubble. In order for this to work, the change
from symmetry to broken symmetry must have taken place very slowly inside
the bubble, but this is quite possible according to grand unified theories.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Linde’s idea of a slow breaking of symmetry was very good, but I pointed out
that his bubbles would have been bigger than the size of the universe at the
time. I showed that instead the symmetry would have broken everywhere at
the same time, rather than just inside bubbles. This would lead to a uniform
universe, like we observe. The slow symmetry breaking model was a good
92

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

attempt to explain why the universe is the way it is. However, I and several
other people showed that it predicted much greater variations in the
microwave background radiation than are observed. Also, later work cast
doubt on whether there would have been the right kind of phase transition in
the early universe. A better model, called the chaotic inflationary model, was
introduced by Linde in 1983. This doesn’t depend on phase transitions, and it
can give us the right size of variations of the microwave background. The inflationary model showed that the present state of the universe could have arisen
from quite a large number of different initial configurations. It cannot be the
case, however, that every initial configuration would have led to a universe
like the one we observe. So even the inflationary model does not tell us why
the initial configuration was such as to produce what we observe. Must we turn
to the anthropic principle for an explanation? Was it all just a lucky chance?
That would seem a counsel of despair, a negation of all our hopes of understanding the underlying order of the universe.

QUANTUM GRAVITY

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In order to predict how the universe should have started off, one needs laws that
hold at the beginning of time. If the classical theory of general relativity was
correct, the singularity theorem showed that the beginning of time would have
been a point of infinite density and curvature. All the known laws of science
93

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

would break down at such a point. One might suppose that there were new laws
that held at singularities, but it would be very difficult even to formulate laws
at such badly behaved points and we would have no guide from observations as
to what those laws might be. However, what the singularity theorems really
indicate is that the gravitational field becomes so strong that quantum gravitational effects become important: Classical theory is no longer a good description of the universe. So one has to use a quantum theory of gravity to discuss
the very early stages of the universe. As we shall see, it is possible in the quantum theory for the ordinary laws of science to hold everywhere, including at the
beginning of time. It is not necessary to postulate new laws for singularities,
because there need not be any singularities in the quantum theory.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

We don’t yet have a complete and consistent theory that combines quantum
mechanics and gravity. However, we are thoroughly certain of some features
that such a unified theory should have. One is that it should incorporate
Feynman’s proposal to formulate quantum theory in terms of a sum over histories. In this approach, a particle going from A to B does not have just a single
history as it would in a classical theory. Instead, it is supposed to follow every
possible path in space–time. With each of these histories, there are associated
a couple of numbers, one representing the size of a wave and the other representing its position in the cycle—its phase.

94

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

The probability that the particle, say, passes through some particular point is
found by adding up the waves associated with every possible history that
passes through that point. When one actually tries to perform these sums,
however, one runs into severe technical problems. The only way around these
is the following peculiar prescription: One must add up the waves for particle
histories that are not in the real time that you and I experience but take place
in imaginary time.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Imaginary time may sound like science fiction, but it is in fact a well–defined
mathematical concept. To avoid the technical difficulties with Feynman’s sum
over histories, one must use imaginary time. This has an interesting effect on
space–time: The distinction between time and space disappears completely. A
space–time in which events have imaginary values of the time coordinate is
said to be Euclidean because the metric is positive definite.
In Euclidean space-time there is no difference between the time direction and
directions in space. On the other hand, in real space-time, in which events are
labeled by real values of the time coordinate, it is easy to tell the difference. The
time direction lies within the light cone, and space directions lie outside. One
can regard the use of imaginary time as merely a mathematical device—or
trick—to calculate answers about real space-time. However, there may be more
to it than that. It may be that Euclidean space-time is the fundamental concept
and what we think of as real space-time is just a figment of our imagination.
95

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

When we apply Feynman’s sum over histories to the universe, the analogue of
the history of a particle is now a complete curved space–time which represents
the history of the whole universe. For the technical reasons mentioned above,
these curved space–times must be taken to be Euclidean. That is, time is
imaginary and is indistinguishable from directions in space. To calculate the
probability of finding a real space-time with some certain property, one adds
up the waves associated with all the histories in imaginary time that have that
property. One can then work out what the probable history of the universe
would be in real time.

THE NO BOUNDARY CONDITION

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In the classical theory of gravity, which is based on real space-time, there are
only two possible ways the universe can behave. Either it has existed for an infinite time, or else it had a beginning at a singularity at some finite time in the
past. In fact, the singularity theorems show it must be the second possibility. In
the quantum theory of gravity, on the other hand, a third possibility arises.
Because one is using Euclidean space-times, in which the time direction is on
the same footing as directions in space, it is possible for space-time to be finite
in extent and yet to have no singularities that formed a boundary or edge.
Space-time would be like the surface of the Earth, only with two more dimensions. The surface of the Earth is finite in extent but it doesn’t have a boundary
96

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

or edge. If you sail off into the sunset, you don’t fall off the edge or run into a
singularity. I know, because I have been around the world.
If Euclidean space-times direct back to infinite imaginary time or else started
at a singularity, we would have the same problem as in the classical theory of
specifying the initial state of the universe. God may know how the universe
began, but we cannot give any particular reason for thinking it began one way
rather than another. On the other hand, the quantum theory of gravity has
opened up a new possibility. In this, there would be no boundary to
space–time. Thus, there would be no need to specify the behavior at the
boundary. There would be no singularities at which the laws of science broke
down and no edge of space–time at which one would have to appeal to God or
some new law to set the boundary conditions for space-time. One could say:
“The boundary condition of the universe is that it has no boundary.” The universe would be completely self-contained and not affected by anything outside
itself. It would be neither created nor destroyed. It would just be.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

It was at the conference in the Vatican that I first put forward the suggestion
that maybe time and space together formed a surface that was finite in size but
did not have any boundary or edge. My paper was rather mathematical, however, so its implications for the role of God in the creation of the universe were
not noticed at the time–just as well for me. At the time of the Vatican confer97

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

ence, I did not know how to use a no boundary idea to make predictions about
the universe. However, I spent the following summer at the University of
California, Santa Barbara. There, a friend and colleague of mine, Jim Hartle,
worked out with me what conditions the universe must satisfy if space–time
had no boundary.
I should emphasize that this idea that time and space should be finite without
boundary is just a proposal. It cannot be deduced from some other principle.
Like any other scientific theory, it may initially be put forward for aesthetic or
metaphysical reasons, but the real test is whether it makes predictions that
agree with observation. This, however, is difficult to determine in the case of
quantum gravity, for two reasons. First, we are not yet sure exactly which theory successfully combines general relativity and quantum mechanics, though
we know quite a lot about the form such a theory must have. Second, any
model that described the whole universe in detail would be much too complicated mathematically for us to be able to calculate exact predictions. One
therefore has to make approximations—and even then, the problem of
extracting predictions remains a difficult one.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

One finds, under the no boundary proposal, that the chance of the universe
being found to be following most of the possible histories is negligible. But
there is a particular family of histories that are much more probable than the
98

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

others. These histories may be pictured as being like the surface of the Earth,
with a distance from the North Pole representing imaginary time; the size of a
circle of latitude would represent the spatial size of the universe. The universe
starts at the North Pole as a single point. As one moves south, the circle of latitude get bigger, corresponding to the universe expanding with imaginary time.
The universe would reach a maximum size at the equator and would contract
again to a single point at the South Pole. Even though the universe would
have zero size at the North and South poles, these points would not be singularities any more than the North and South poles on the Earth are singular.
The laws of science will hold at the beginning of the universe, just as they do
at the North and South poles on the Earth.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The history of the universe in real time, however, would look very different. It
would appear to start at some minimum size, equal to the maximum size of the
history in imaginary time. The universe would then expand in real time like
the inflationary model. However, one would not now have to assume that the
universe was created somehow in the right sort of state. The universe would
expand to a very large size, but eventually it would collapse again into what
looks like a singularity in real time. Thus, in a sense, we are still all doomed,
even if we keep away from black holes. Only if we could picture the universe
in terms of imaginary time would there be no singularities.

99

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

The singularity theorems of classical general relativity showed that the universe must have a beginning, and that this beginning must be described in
terms of quantum theory. This in turn led to the idea that the universe could
be finite in imaginary time, but without boundaries or singularities. When one
goes back to the real time in which we live, however, there will still appear to
be singularities. The poor astronaut who falls into a black hole will still come
to a sticky end. It is only if he could live in imaginary time that he would
encounter no singularities.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

This might suggest that the so–called imaginary time is really the fundamental time, and that what we call real time is something we create just in our
minds. In real time, the universe has a beginning and an end at singularities
that form a boundary to space-time and at which the laws of science break
down. But in imaginary time, there are no singularities or boundaries. So
maybe what we call imaginary time is really more basic, and what we call real
time is just an idea that we invent to help us describe what we think the universe is like. But according to the approach I described in the first lecture, a
scientific theory is just a mathematical model we make to describe our observations. It exists only in our minds. So it does not have any meaning to ask:
Which is real, “real” or “imaginary” time? It is simply a matter of which is a
more useful description.

100

THE

ORIGIN

AND

FATE

OF

THE

UNIVERSE

The no boundary proposal seems to predict that, in real time, the universe
should behave like the inflationary models. A particularly interesting problem
is the size of the small departures from uniform density in the early universe.
These are thought to have led to the formation first of the galaxies, then of
stars, and finally of beings like us. The uncertainty principle implies that the
early universe cannot have been completely uniform. Instead, there must have
been some uncertainties or fluctuations in the positions and velocities of the
particles. Using the no boundary condition, one finds that the universe must
have started off with just the minimum possible nonuniformity allowed by the
uncertainty principle.
The universe would have then undergone a period of rapid expansion, like in
the inflationary models. During this period, the initial nonuniformities would
have been amplified until they could have been big enough to explain the origin of galaxies. Thus, all the complicated structures that we see in the universe
might be explained by the no boundary condition for the universe and the
uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The idea that space and time may form a closed surface without boundary also
has profound implications for the role of God in the affairs of the universe.
With the success of scientific theories in describing events, most people have
come to believe that God allows the universe to evolve according to a set of
101

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

laws. He does not seem to intervene in the universe to break these laws.
However, the laws do not tell us what the universe should have looked like
when it started. It would still be up to God to wind up the clockwork and
choose how to start it off. So long as the universe had a beginning that was a
singularity, one could suppose that it was created by an outside agency. But if
the universe is really completely self-contained, having no boundary or edge,
it would be neither created nor destroyed. It would simply be. What place,
then, for a creator?

102

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

SIXTH
LECTURE

THE DIRECTION OF TIME

THE

DIRECTION

OF

TIME

I

n his book, The Go Between, L. P. Hartley wrote, “The past is a foreign
country. They do things differently there–but why is the past so different
from the future? Why do we remember the past, but not the future?” In other
words, why does time go forward? Is this connected with the fact that the universe is expanding?

C, P, T

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The laws of physics do not distinguish between the past and the future. More
precisely, the laws of physics are unchanged under the combination of operations known as C, P, and T. (C means changing particles for antiparticles. P
means taking the mirror image so left and right are swapped for each other.
And T means reversing the direction of motion of all particles—in effect, running the motion backward.) The laws of physics that govern the behavior of
matter under all normal situations are unchanged under the operations C and
P on their own. In other words, life would be just the same for the inhabitants
of another planet who were our mirror images and who were made of antimatter. If you meet someone from another planet and he holds out his left hand,
don't shake it. He might be made of antimatter. You would both disappear in
a tremendous flash of light. If the laws of physics are unchanged by the combination of operations C and P, and also by the combination C, P, and T, they
must also be unchanged under the operation T alone. Yet, there is a big differ105

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

ence between the forward and backward directions of time in ordinary life.
Imagine a cup of water falling off a table and breaking in pieces on the floor.
If you take a film of this, you can easily tell whether it is being run forward or
backward. If you run it backward, you will see the pieces suddenly gather themselves together off the floor and jump back to form a whole cup on the table.
You can tell that the film is being run backward because this kind of behavior
is never observed in ordinary life. If it were, the crockery manufacturers would
go out of business.

THE ARROWS OF TIME
The explanation that is usually given as to why we don’t see broken cups jumping back onto the table is that it is forbidden by the second law of thermodynamics. This says that disorder or entropy always increases with time. In other
words, it is Murphy’s Law—things get worse. An intact cup on the table is a
state of high order, but a broken cup on the floor is a disordered state. One can
therefore go from the whole cup on the table in the past to the broken cup on
the floor in the future, but not the other way around.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The increase of disorder or entropy with time is one example of what is called
an arrow of time, something that gives a direction to time and distinguishes the
past from the future. There are at least three different arrows of time. First,
106

THE

DIRECTION

OF

TIME

there is the thermodynamic arrow of time—the direction of time in which disorder or entropy increases. Second, there is the psychological arrow of time.
This is the direction in which we feel time passes—the direction of time in
which we remember the past, but not the future. Third, there is the cosmological arrow of time. This is the direction of time in which the universe is
expanding rather than contracting.
I shall argue the the pyschological arrow is determined by the thermodynamic
arrow and that these two arrows always point in the same direction. If one makes
the no boundary assumption for the universe, they are related to the cosmological arrow of time, though they may not point in the same direction. However,
I shall argue that it is only when they agree with the cosmological arrow that
there will be intelligent beings who can ask the question: Why does disorder
increase in the same direction of time as that in which the universe expands?

THE THERMODYNAMIC ARROW

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

I shall talk first about the thermodynamic arrow of time. The second law of
thermodynamics is based on the fact that there are many more disordered
states than there are ordered ones. For example, consider the pieces of a jigsaw
in a box. There is one, and only one, arrangement in which the pieces make a
107

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

complete picture. On the other hand, there are a very large number of arrangements in which the pieces are disordered and don’t make a picture.
Suppose a systems starts out in one of the small number of ordered states. As
time goes by, the system will evolve according to the laws of physics and its
state will change. At a later time, there is a high probability that it will be in
a more disordered state, simply because there are so many more disordered
states. Thus, disorder will tend to increase with time if the system obeys an initial condition of high order.
Suppose the pieces of the jigsaw start off in the ordered arrangement in which
they form a picture. If you shake the box, the pieces will take up another
arrangement. This will probably be a disordered arrangement in which the
pieces don’t form a proper picture, simply because there are so many more
disordered arrangements. Some groups of pieces may still form parts of the
picture, but the more you shake the box, the more likely it is that these groups
will get broken up. The pieces will take up a completely jumbled state in which
they don’t form any sort of picture. Thus, the disorder of the pieces will
probably increase with time if they obey the initial condition that they start in
a state of high order.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Suppose, however, that God decided that the universe should finish up at late
108

THE

DIRECTION

OF

TIME

times in a state of high order but it didn’t matter what state it started in. Then,
at early times the universe would probably be in a disordered state, and disorder would decrease with time. You would have broken cups gathering themselves together and jumping back on the table. However, any human beings
who observing the cups would be living in a universe in which disorder
decreased with time. I shall argue that such beings would have a psychological
arrow of time that was backward. That is, they would remember thence at late
times and not remember thence at early times.

THE PSYCHOLOGICAL ARROW
It is rather difficult to talk about human memory because we don’t know how
the brain works in detail. We do, however, know all about how computer
memories work. I shall therefore discuss the psychological arrow of time for
computers. I think it is reasonable to assume that the arrow for computers is
the same as that for human. If it were not, one could make a killing on the
stock exchange by having a computer that would remember tomorrow’s prices.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

A computer memory is basically some device that can be in either one of two
states. An example would be a superconducting loop of wire. If there is an electric current flowing in the loop, it will continue to flow because there is no
resistance. On the other hand, if there is no current, the loop will continue
109

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

without a current. One can label the two states of the memory “one” and “zero.”
Before an item is recorded in the memory, the memory is in a disordered state
with equal probabilities for one and zero. After the memory interacts with the
system to be remembered, it will definitely be in one state or the other, according to the state of the system. Thus, the memory passes from a disordered state
to an ordered one. However, in order to make sure that the memory is in the
right state, it is necessary to use a certain amount of energy. This energy is dissipated as heat and increases the amount of disorder in the universe. One can
show that this increase of disorder is greater than the increase in the order of
the memory. Thus, when a computer records an item in memory, the total
amount of disorder in the universe goes up.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The direction of time in which a computer remembers the past is the same as
that in which disorder increases. This means that our subjective sense of the
direction of time, the psychological arrow of time, is determined by the thermodynamic arrow of time. This makes the second law of thermodynamics
almost trivial. Disorder increases with time because we measure time in the
direction in which disorder increases. You can’t have a safer bet than that.

110

THE

DIRECTION

OF

TIME

THE BOUNDARY CONDITIONS
OF THE UNIVERSE
But why should the universe be in a state of high order at one end of time, the
end that we call the past? Why was it not in a state of complete disorder at all
times? After all, this might seem more probable. And why is the direction of
time in which disorder increases the same as that in which the universe
expands? One possible answer is that God simply chose that the universe
should be in a smooth and ordered state at the beginning of the expansion
phase. We should not try to understand why or question His reasons because
the beginning of the universe was the work of God. But the whole history of
the universe can be said to be the work of God.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

It appears that the universe evolves according to well-defined laws. These laws
may or may not be ordained by God, but it seems that we can discover and
understand them. Is it, therefore, unreasonable to hope that the same or similar laws may also hold at the beginning of the universe? In the classical
theory of general relativity, the beginning of the universe has to be a singularity of infinite density in space-time curvature. Under such conditions, all the
known laws of physics would break down. Thus, one could not use them to
predict how the universe would begin.

111

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

The universe could have started out in a very smooth and ordered state. This
would have led to well-defined thermodynamic and cosmological arrows of
time, like we observe. But it could equally well have started out in a very
lumpy and disordered state. In this case, the universe would already be in a
state of complete disorder, so disorder could not increase with time. It would
either stay constant, in which case there would be no well-defined thermodynamic arrow of time, or it would decrease, in which case the thermodynamic
arrow of time would point in the opposite direction to the cosmological arrow.
Neither of these possibilities would agree with what we observe.
As I mentioned, the classical theory of general relativity predicts that the
universe should begin with a singularity where the curvature of space-time is
infinite. In fact, this means that classical general relativity predicts its own
downfall. When the curvature of space-time becomes large, quantum gravitational effects will become important and the classical theory will cease to be a
good description of the universe. One has to use the quantum theory of
gravity to understand how the universe began.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

In a quantum theory of gravity, one considers all possible histories of the
universe. Associated with each history, there are a couple of numbers. One
represents the size of a wave and the other the face of the wave, that is,
whether the wave is at a crest or a trough. The probability of the universe
112

THE

DIRECTION

OF

TIME

having a particular property is given by adding up the waves for all the histories with that property. The histories would be curved spaces that would
represent the evolution of the universe in time. One would still have to say
how the possible histories of the universe would behave at the boundary of
space–time in the past. We do not and cannot know the boundary conditions
of the universe in the past. However, one could avoid this difficulty if the
boundary condition of the universe is that it has no boundary. In other words,
all the possible histories are finite in extent but have no boundaries, edges, or
singularities. They are like the surface of the Earth, but with two more dimensions. In that case, the beginning of time would be a regular smooth point of
space–time. This means that the universe would have begun its expansion in
a very smooth and ordered state. It could not have been completely uniform
because that would violate the uncertainty principle of quantum theory. There
had to be small fluctuations in the density and velocities of particles. The no
boundary condition, however, would imply that these fluctuations were as
small as they could be, consistent with the uncertainty principle.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The universe would have started off with a period of exponential or “inflationary” expansion. In this, it would have increased its size by a very large factor.
During this expansion, the density fluctuations would have remained small at
first, but later would have started to grow. Regions in which the density was
slightly higher than average would have had their expansion slowed down by
113

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

the gravitational attraction of the extra mass. Eventually, such regions would
stop expanding, and would collapse to form galaxies, stars, and beings like us.
The universe would have started in a smooth and ordered state and would
become lumpy and disordered as time went on. This would explain the existence of the thermodynamic arrow of time. The universe would start in a state
of high order and would become more disordered with time. As I showed earlier, the psychological arrow of time points in the same direction as the thermodynamic arrow. Our subjective sense of time would therefore be that in
which the universe is expanding, rather than the opposite direction, in which
it would be contracting.

DOES THE ARROW
OF TIME REVERSE?

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

But what would happen if and when the universe stopped expanding and
began to contract again? Would the thermodynamic arrow reverse and
disorder begin to decrease with time? This would lead to all sorts of
science–fiction–like possibilities for people who survived from the expanding
to the contracting phase. Would they see broken cups gathering themselves
together off the floor and jumping back on the table? Would they be able to
remember tomorrow’s prices and make a fortune on the stock market?
114

THE

DIRECTION

OF

TIME

It might seem a bit academic to worry about what would happen when the universe collapses again, as it will not start to contract for at least another ten
thousand million years. But there is a quicker way to find out what will happen: Jump into a black hole. The collapse of a star to form a black hole is rather
like the later stages of the collapse of the whole universe. Thus, if disorder were
to decrease in the contracting phase of the universe, one might also expect it
to decrease inside a black hole. So perhaps an astronaut who fell into a black
hole would be able to make money at roulette by remembering where the ball
went before he placed his bet. Unfortunately, however, he would not have long
to play before he was turned to spaghetti by the very strong gravitational fields.
Nor would he be able to let us know about the reversal of the thermodynamic
arrow, or even bank his winnings, because he would be trapped behind the
event horizon of the black hole.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

At first, I believed that disorder would decrease when the universe recollapsed.
This was because I thought that the universe had to return to a smooth and
ordered state when it became small again. This would have meant that the
contracting phase was like the time reverse of the expanding phase. People in
the contracting phase would live their lives backward. They would die before
they were born and would get younger as the universe contracted. This idea is
attractive because it would mean a nice symmetry between the expanding and
contracting phases. However, one cannot adopt it on its own, independent of
115

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

other ideas about the universe. The question is: Is it implied by the no boundary condition or is it inconsistent with that condition?
As I mentioned, I thought at first that the no boundary condition did indeed
imply that disorder would decrease in the contracting phase. This was based
on work on a simple model of the universe in which the collapsing phase
looked like the time reverse of the expanding phase. However, a colleague of
mine, Don Page, pointed out that the no boundary condition did not require
the contracting phase necessarily to be the time reverse of the expanding
phase. Further, one of my students, Raymond Laflamme, found that in a slightly
more complicated model, the collapse of the universe was very different from
the expansion. I realized that I had made a mistake. In fact, the no boundary
condition implied that disorder would continue to increase during the contraction. The thermodynamic and psychological arrows of time would not
reverse when the universe begins to recontract or inside black holes.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

What should you do when you find you have made a mistake like that? Some
people, like Eddington, never admit that they are wrong. They continue to
find new, and often mutually inconsistent, arguments to support their case.
Others claim to have never really supported the incorrect view in the first
place or, if they did, it was only to show that it was inconsistent. I could give
a large number of examples of this, but I won’t because it would make me too
116

THE

DIRECTION

OF

TIME

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

unpopular. It seems to me much better and less confusing if you admit in print
that you were wrong. A good example of this was Einstein, who said that the
cosmological constant, which he introduced when he was trying to make a
static model of the universe, was the biggest mistake of his life.

117

SEVENTH
LECTURE

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

THE THEORY OF EVERYTHING

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

120

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

I

t would be very difficult to construct a complete unified theory of everything
all at one go. So instead we have made progress by finding partial theories.
These describe a limited range of happenings and neglect other effects, or
approximate them by certain numbers. In chemistry, for example, we can calculate the interactions of atoms without knowing the internal structure of the
nucleus of an atom. Ultimately, however, one would hope to find a complete,
consistent, unified theory that would include all these partial theories as
approximations. The quest for such a theory is known as “the unification of
physics.”
Einstein spent most of his later years unsuccessfully searching for a unified theory, but the time was not ripe: Very little was known about the nuclear forces.
Moreover, Einstein refused to believe in the reality of quantum mechanics,
despite the important role he had played in its development. Yet it seems that
the uncertainty principle is a fundamental feature of the universe we live in. A
successful unified theory must therefore necessarily incorporate this principle.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

The prospects for finding such a theory seem to be much better now because
we know so much more about the universe. But we must beware of overconfidence. We have had false dawns before. At the beginning of this century, for
example, it was thought that everything could be explained in terms of the
properties of continuous matter, such as elasticity and heat conduction. The
121

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

discovery of atomic structure and the uncertainty principle put an end to that.
Then again, in 1928, Max Born told a group of visitors to Göttingen
University, “Physics, as we know it, will be over in six months.” His confidence
was based on the recent discovery by Dirac of the equation that governed the
electron. It was thought that a similar equation would govern the proton,
which was the only other particle known at the time, and that would be the
end of theoretical physics. However, the discovery of the neutron and of
nuclear forces knocked that one on the head, too.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Having said this, I still believe there are grounds for cautious optimism that we
may now be near the end of the search for the ultimate laws of nature. At the
moment, we have a number of partial theories. We have general relativity, the
partial theory of gravity, and the partial theories that govern the weak, the
strong, and the electromagnetic forces. The last three may be combined in
so-called grand unified theories. These are not very satisfactory because they
do not include gravity. The main difficulty in finding a theory that unifies
gravity with the other forces is that general relativity is a classical theory. That
is, it does not incorporate the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics. On
the other hand, the other partial theories depend on quantum mechanics in an
essential way. A necessary first step, therefore, is to combine general relativity
with the uncertainty principle. As we have seen, this can produce some
remarkable consequences, such as black holes not being black, and the uni122

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

verse being completely self–contained and without boundary. The trouble is,
the uncertainty principle means that even empty space is filled with pairs of
virtual particles and antiparticles. These pairs would have an infinite amount
of energy. This means that their gravitational attraction would curve up the
universe to an infinitely small size.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Rather similar, seemingly absurd infinities occur in the other quantum theories.
However, in these other theories, the infinities can be canceled out by a process
called renormalization. This involves adjusting the masses of the particles and
the strengths of the forces in the theory by an infinite amount. Although this
technique is rather dubious mathematically, it does seem to work in practice. It
has been used to make predictions that agree with observations to an extraordinary degree of accuracy. Renormalization, however, has a serious drawback
from the point of view of trying to find a complete theory. When you subtract
infinity from infinity, the answer can be anything you want. This means that
the actual values of the masses and the strengths of the forces cannot be
predicted from the theory. Instead, they have to be chosen to fit the observations. In the case of general relativity, there are only two quantities that can be
adjusted: the strength of gravity and the value of the cosmological constant. But
adjusting these is not sufficient to remove all the infinities. One therefore has
a theory that seems to predict that certain quantities, such as the curvature of
space–time, are really infinite, yet these quantities can be observed and
123

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

measured to be perfectly finite. In an attempt to overcome this problem, a theory called “supergravity” was suggested in 1976. This theory was really just general relativity with some additional particles.
In general relativity, the gravitational force can be thought of as being carried
by a particle of spin 2 called the graviton. The idea was to add certain other
new particles of spin 3/2, 1, 1/2, and 0. In a sense, all these particles could then
be regarded as different aspects of the same “superparticle.” The virtual particle/antiparticle pairs of spin 1/2 and 3/2 would have negative energy. This
would tend to cancel out the positive energy of the virtual pairs of particles of
spin 0, 1, and 2. In this way, many of the possible infinities would cancel out,
but it was suspected that some infinities might still remain. However, the calculations required to find out whether there were any infinities left uncanceled
were so long and difficult that no one was prepared to undertake them. Even
with a computer it was reckoned it would take at least four years. The chances
were very high that one would make at least one mistake, and probably more.
So one would know one had the right answer only if someone else repeated the
calculation and got the same answer, and that did not seem very likely.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Because of this problem, there was a change of opinion in favor of what are
called string theories. In these theories the basic objects are not particles that
occupy a single point of space. Rather, they are things that have a length but
124

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

no other dimension, like an infinitely thin loop of string. A particle occupies
one point of space at each instant of time. Thus, its history can be represented
by a line in space-time called the “world–line.” A string, on the other hand,
occupies a line in space at each moment of time. So its history in space–time
is a two–dimensional surface called the “world–sheet.” Any point on such a
world–sheet can be described by two numbers, one specifying the time and the
other the position of the point on the string. The world-sheet of a string is a
cylinder or tube. A slice through the tube is a circle, which represents the position of the string at one particular time.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Two pieces of string can join together to form a single string. It is like the two
legs joining on a pair of trousers. Similarly, a single piece of string can divide
into two strings. In string theories, what were previously thought of as particles
are now pictured as waves traveling down the string, like waves on a washing
line. The emission or absorption of one particle by another corresponds to the
dividing or joining together of strings. For example, the gravitational force of
the sun on the Earth corresponds to an H-shaped tube or pipe. String theory is
rather like plumbing, in a way. Waves on the two vertical sides of the H correspond to the particles in the sun and the Earth, and waves on the horizontal
crossbar correspond to the gravitational force that travels between them.

125

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

String theory has a curious history. It was originally invented in the late 1960s
in an attempt to find a theory to describe the strong force. The idea was that
particles like the proton and the neutron could be regarded as waves on a
string. The strong forces between the particles would correspond to pieces of
string that went between other bits of string, like in a spider’s web. For this theory to give the observed value of the strong force between particles, the strings
had to be like rubber bands with a pull of about ten tons.
In 1974 Joël Scherk and John Schwarz published a paper in which they showed
that string theory could describe the gravitational force, but only if the tension
in the string were very much higher—about 1039tons. The predictions of the
string theory would be just the same as those of general relativity on normal
length scales, but they would differ at very small distances—less than 10-33
centimeters. Their work did not receive much attention, however, because at
just about that time, most people abandoned the original string theory of the
strong force. Scherk died in tragic circumstances. He suffered from diabetes
and went into a coma when no one was around to give him an injection of
insulin. So Schwarz was left alone as almost the only supporter of string
theory, but now with a much higher proposed value of the string tension.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

There seemed to have been two reasons for the sudden revival of interest in
strings in 1984. One was that people were not really making much progress
126

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

toward showing that supergravity was finite or that it could explain the kinds
of particles that we observe. The other was the publication of a paper by John
Schwarz and Mike Green which showed that string theory might be able to
explain the existence of particles that have a built–in left–handedness, like
some of the particles that we observe. Whatever the reasons, a large number
of people soon began to work on string theory. A new version was developed,
the so–called heterotic string. This seemed as if it might be able to explain the
types of particle that we observe.
String theories also lead to infinities, but it is thought they will all cancel out
in versions like the heterotic string. String theories, however, have a bigger
problem. They seem to be consistent only if space–time has either ten or
twenty–six dimensions, instead of the usual four. Of course, extra space–time
dimensions are a commonplace of science fiction; indeed, they are almost a
necessity. Otherwise, the fact that relativity implies that one cannot travel
faster than light means that it would take far too long to get across our own
galaxy, let alone to travel to other galaxies. The science fiction idea is that one
can take a shortcut through a higher dimension. One can picture this in the
following way. Imagine that the space we live in had only two dimensions and
was curved like the surface of a doughnut or a torus. If you were on one side of
the ring and you wanted to get to a point on the other side, you would have to
go around the ring. However, if you were able to travel in the third dimension,
you could cut straight across.
127

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

Why don’t we notice all these extra dimensions if they are really there? Why
do we see only three space and one time dimension? The suggestion is that the
other dimensions are curved up into a space of very small size, something like
a million million million million millionth of an inch. This is so small that we
just don’t notice it. We see only the three space and one time dimension in
which space-time is thoroughly flat. It is like the surface of an orange: if you
look at it close up, it is all curved and wrinkled, but if you look at it from a
distance, you don’t see the bumps and it appears to be smooth. So it is with
space–time. On a very small scale, it is ten–dimensional and highly curved.
But on bigger scales, you don’t see the curvature or the extra dimensions.
If this picture is correct, it spells bad news for would-be space travelers. The
extra dimensions would be far too small to allow a spaceship through.
However, it raises another major problem. Why should some, but not all, of
the dimensions be curled up into a small ball? Presumably, in the very early
universe, all the dimensions would have been very curved. Why did three
space and one time dimension flatten out, while the other dimensions
remained tightly curled up?

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

One possible answer is the anthropic principle. Two space dimensions do not
seem to be enough to allow for the development of complicated beings like us.
For example, two–dimensional people living on a one-dimensional Earth
128

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

would have to climb over each other in order to get past each other. If a twodimensional creature ate something it could not digest completely, it would
have to bring up the remains the same way it swallowed them, because if there
were a passage through its body, it would divide the creature into two separate
parts. Our two–dimensional being would fall apart. Similarly, it is difficult to
see how there could be any circulation of the blood in a two-dimensional creature. There would also be problems with more than three space dimensions.
The gravitational force between two bodies would decrease more rapidly with
distance than it does in three dimensions. The significance of this is that the
orbits of planets, like the Earth, around the sun would be unstable. The least
disturbance from a circular orbit, such as would be caused by the gravitational
attraction of other planets, would cause the Earth to spiral away from or into
the sun. We would either freeze or be burned up. In fact, the same behavior of
gravity with distance would mean that the sun would also be unstable. It would
either fall apart or it would collapse to form a black hole. In either case, it
would not be much use as a source of heat and light for life on Earth. On a
smaller scale, the electrical forces that cause the electrons to orbit around the
nucleus in an atom would behave in the same way as the gravitational forces.
Thus, the electrons would either escape from the atom altogether or it would spiral into the nucleus. In either case, one could not have atoms as we know them.

129

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

It seems clear that life, at least as we know it, can exist only in regions of
space-time in which three space and one time dimension are not curled up
small. This would mean that one could appeal to the anthropic principle, provided one could show that string theory does at least allow there to be such
regions of the universe. And it seems that indeed each string theory does
allow such regions. There may well be other regions of the universe, or other
universes (whatever that may mean) in which all the dimensions are curled
up small, or in which more than four dimensions are nearly flat. But there
would be no intelligent beings in such regions to observe the different number of effective dimensions.
Apart from the question of the number of dimensions that space-time appears
to have, string theory still has several other problems that must be solved
before it can be acclaimed as the ultimate unified theory of physics. We do not
yet know whether all the infinities cancel each other out, or exactly how to
relate the waves on the string to the particular types of particle that we
observe. Nevertheless, it is likely that answers to these questions will be found
over the next few years, and that by the end of the century we shall know
whether string theory is indeed the long sought-after unified theory of physics.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Can there really be a unified theory of everything? Or are we just chasing a
mirage? There seem to be three possibilities:
130

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

•

There really is a complete unified theory, which we will someday
discover if we are smart enough.

•

There is no ultimate theory of the universe, just an infinite
sequence of theories that describe the universe more and more
accurately.

•

There is no theory of the universe. Events cannot be predicted
beyond a certain extent but occur in a random and arbitrary manner.

Some would argue for the third possibility on the grounds that if there were a
complete set of laws, that would infringe on God’s freedom to change His mind
and to intervene in the world. It’s a bit like the old paradox: Can God make a
stone so heavy that He can’t lift it? But the idea that God might want to
change His mind is an example of the fallacy, pointed out by St. Augustine, of
imagining God as a being existing in time. Time is a property only of the
universe that God created. Presumably, He knew what He intended when He
set it up.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

With the advent of quantum mechanics, we have come to realize that events
cannot be predicted with complete accuracy but that there is always a degree
of uncertainty. If one liked, one could ascribe this randomness to the interven131

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

tion of God. But it would be a very strange kind of intervention. There is no
evidence that it is directed toward any purpose. Indeed, if it were, it wouldn’t
be random. In modern times, we have effectively removed the third possibility
by redefining the goal of science. Our aim is to formulate a set of laws that will
enable us to predict events up to the limit set by the uncertainty principle.
The second possibility, that there is an infinite sequence of more and more
refined theories, is in agreement with all our experience so far. On many occasions, we have increased the sensitivity of our measurements or made a new
class of observations only to discover new phenomena that were not predicted
by the existing theory. To account for these, we have had to develop a more
advanced theory. It would therefore not be very surprising if we find that our
present grand unified theories break down when we test them on bigger and
more powerful particle accelerators. Indeed, if we didn’t expect them to break
down, there wouldn’t be much point in spending all that money on building
more powerful machines.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

However, it seems that gravity may provide a limit to this sequence of “boxes
within boxes.” If one had a particle with an energy above what is called the
Planck energy, 1019 GeV, its mass would be so concentrated that it would cut
itself off from the rest of the universe and form a little black hole. Thus, it does
seem that the sequence of more and more refined theories should have some
132

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

limit as we go to higher and higher energies. There should be some ultimate
theory of the universe. Of course, the Planck energy is a very long way from
the energies of around a GeV, which are the most that we can produce in the
laboratory at the present time. To bridge that gap would require a particle
accelerator that was bigger than the solar system. Such an accelerator would
be unlikely to be funded in the present economic climate.
However, the very early stages of the universe are an arena where such energies must have occurred. I think that there is a good chance that the study of
the early universe and the requirements of mathematical consistency will lead
us to a complete unified theory by the end of the century—always presuming
we don’t blow ourselves up first.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

What would it mean if we actually did discover the ultimate theory of the universe? It would bring to an end a long and glorious chapter in the history of
our struggle to understand the universe. But it would also revolutionize the
ordinary person’s understanding of the laws that govern the universe. In
Newton’s time it was possible for an educated person to have a grasp of the
whole of human knowledge, at least in outline. But ever since then, the pace
of development of science has made this impossible. Theories were always
being changed to account for new observations. They were never properly
digested or simplified so that ordinary people could understand them.You had
133

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

to be a specialist, and even then you could only hope to have a proper grasp of
a small proportion of the scientific theories.
Further, the rate of progress was so rapid that what one learned at school or
university was always a bit out of date. Only a few people could keep up
with the rapidly advancing frontier of knowledge. And they had to devote
their whole time to it and specialize in a small area. The rest of the population had little idea of the advances that were being made or the excitement
they were generating.
Seventy years ago, if Eddington is to be believed, only two people understood
the general theory of relativity. Nowadays tens of thousands of university graduates understand it, and many millions of people are at least familiar with the
idea. If a complete unified theory were discovered, it would be only a matter
of time before it was digested and simplified in the same way. It could then be
taught in schools, at least in outline. We would then all be able to have some
understanding of the laws that govern the universe and which are responsible
for our existence.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Einstein once asked a question: “How much choice did God have in constructing the universe?” If the no boundary proposal is correct, He had no freedom
at all to choose initial conditions. He would, of course, still have had the free134

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

dom to choose the laws that the universe obeyed. This, however, may not
really have been all that much of a choice. There may well be only one or a
small number of complete unified theories that are self-consistent and which
allow the existence of intelligent beings.
We can ask about the nature of God even if there is only one possible unified
theory that is just a set of rules and equations. What is it that breathes fire into
the equations and makes a universe for them to describe? The usual approach
of science of constructing a mathematical model cannot answer the question
of why there should be a universe for the model to describe. Why does the universe go to all the bother of existing? Is the unified theory so compelling that
it brings about its own existence? Or does it need a creator, and, if so, does He
have any effect on the universe other than being responsible for its existence?
And who created Him?

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Up until now, most scientists have been too occupied with the development
of new theories that describe what the universe is, to ask the question why. On
the other hand, the people whose business it is to ask why—the philosophers—have not been able to keep up with the advance of scientific theories.
In the eighteenth century, philosophers considered the whole of human
knowledge, including science, to be their field. They discussed questions such
as: Did the universe have a beginning? However, in the nineteenth and twen135

THE

THEORY

OF

EVERYTHING

tieth centuries, science became too technical and mathematical for the
philosophers or anyone else, except a few specialists. Philosophers reduced the
scope of their inquiries so much that Wittgenstein, the most famous philosopher of this century, said, “The sole remaining task for philosophy is the analysis of language.” What a comedown from the great tradition of philosophy
from Aristotle to Kant.

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

However, if we do discover a complete theory, it should in time be understandable in broad principle by everyone, not just a few scientists. Then we shall all
be able to take part in the discussion of why the universe exists. If we find the
answer to that, it would be the ultimate triumph of human reason. For then we
would know the mind of God.

136

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

INDEX

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

INDEX

Absolute zero, 68
Anthropic principle, 86
Antigravity, 19
Antimatter, 105
Apple, and Newton, 6
Aristotle, 11, 16, 136
Arrows of time, 106, 112, 116
psychological, 109–110
reversal of, 115–117
thermodynamic, 107–109. 114
Atomic bomb project, 43
Background radiation, 21-22
and hot big bang model, 81
Nobel prize for discovery of, 22
temperature of, 68
Balloon model of expanding
universe, 23
Bardeen, Jim, 64
Bell Labs, 21
Bell, Jocelyn, 51
Bentley, Richard, 7
Bekenstein, Jacob, 63-65
Big bang theory, 11-12
Catholic church and, 28
Friedmann models and, 30
time reversal of black holes and, 32
Black holes, 32. See also primordial
black holes
behavior of, 48

Cygnus X-I, 53–54
detection of, 52–53
entropy and, 61–65, 68
explosions of, 68–74
development of mathematical
models for, 50
gravitational attraction of, 37
gravitational waves and, 47
Kerr type of, 49
loss of mass in, 68–69
present number of, 55
radiation of, 65–68
rotation of, 48–49, 65
second law of thermodynamics and,
61–64, 66
shape of, 47–48
and theory of light, 37
Blue-shift stars, 18
Bondi, Hermann, 28
Born, Max, 122
Boundary conditions, of the universe,
111–113
Brightness of stars, 15
C, P, T, 105–106
Carter, Brandon, 49, 64
Catholic church, 28
and Galileo, 79
Cerenkov radiation, 73
Chandrasekhar limit, 40–42

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

INDEX

Chandrasekhar, Subrahmanyan, 39–40
cold star theory of, 40–42
Chemical elements, and
light spectrum, 16–17
Christian church, 4
City of God, The, 10
Classical theory, 93–94
general relativity as a, 122
of gravity, 96
Cold star theory, 40–42
Copernicus, Nicholas, 5
Cosmic censorship hypothesis, 47
Cosmological constant, 19, 88, 91
Cosmologies, religious, 10
Creation theory, 12
Cygnus X-I, 53
Density
of white dwarf, 41
of universe, 26
Dicke, Bob, 22
Direction of time
arrows of time and, 106–107
boundary conditions of
the universe and, 111–112
C, P, T and, 105–106
psychological arrow and, 109–110
thermodynamic arrow and,
107–108, 114
Distance of stars, 15–16

Doppler effect, 17
and measurement of speed, 17
and measurement of universe
expansion, 26
Earth
circumference of, 3
shape of, 3
Earth, as center of universe, 3–5, 16
Eclipse, 3
Eddington, Sir Arthur, 39–40, 42, 134
Einstein, 19, 42, 121, 135
famous equation of, 66
general relativity and, 19, 89
Entropy, 61–64
Event horizon, 63, 64, 68
entropy and, 64, 65
formation of, 59
light rays in, 59
nondecreasing property of, 60
Expanding universe, 11
and creation theory, 12
Hubble's experiments and, 17–18
Feynman's proposal, 94–96
First century cosmological model, 4
Fixed stars, 4–5
Floods, periodic, 11
Formation of stars, 38
Friedmann, Alexander, 19
assumptions of, 20, 23–25

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

INDEX

background radiation and, 21–22
Friedmann models, the, 23–26, 80
and big bang theory, 27
and space-time continuum, 25, 27
Galactic gas clouds, 83
Galaxy, 15
Doppler measurement of, 26
formation of new, 28
lateral movement of, 30
random velocities of, 31
rotation of, 16
Galilei, Galileo, 5
Catholic church and, 79
Gamma rays, 70–73
Gamow, George, 22
General relativity, 20
cosmological constant, in
theory of, 19, 88, 91
and gravity’s effect on light, 38
and quantum mechanics, 74–76, 122
and questions about hot big bang model, 85
singularity theorem and, 94, 100
steady state theory and, 29
Genesis, book of, 10
Gold, Thomas, 28
Go Between, The, 105
Grand unified theories, 122
Gravitational waves, 47
Gravity, 6–7

of black holes, 45, 90
effects of, on light, 37–38
and Friedmann’s assumptions, 23–25
Green, Mike, 127
Guth, Alan, 87–91
Hartle, Jim, 98
Hartley, L. P., 105
Hawking, Lucy, 59
Helium, 38, 83
Hewish, Anthony, 51
Hot big bang model, 79–91
cooling of universe in, 80–83
contents of universe in, 80
galactic gas clouds in, 83
helium in, 81
initial temperature of universe in, 80
neutron stars in, 83–84
Hoyle, Fred, 28
Hubble, Edwin, 11
and galaxies, 15
and distance of bodies, 15, 17–18
Friedmann’s assumptions and, 20
Hydrogen bomb, 80
Hydrogen, 38, 81
transformation of, into helium, 83
Ice Age, 10
Imaginary time, 95, 100
Infinite time, 45
Infinite universe, 7

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

INDEX

Infinity, 7
Inflationary model, 87–90, 113
bubbles in, 91, 92
exponential expansion in, 87
initial temperature in, 88
phase transition in, 88, 91–92
problems with, 91–93
Israel, Werner, 48
Jupiter, 4
Galileo's observation of, 5
Kant, 136
Kerr, Roy, 49
Khalatnikov, Isaac, 30–31
Laplace, Marquis de, 38
Life cycle of stars, 38–39
Lifshitz, Evgenii, 30–31
Light cones, 43–44
Light spectrum, 16–17
and chemical elements, 16–17
temperature and, 16
Light, theories of, 37
Linde, Andrei, 92–93
Luminosity of stars, 15
Magnetic attraction and
planetary orbit, 6
Mars, 4
Matter, continual creation of, 28–29
Mercury, 4
Michell, John, 37

and detection of black holes, 52
Microwave detector, 21
Milky Way galaxy, 15
rotation of, 16
MIT, 87
Motion, mathematical analysis of, 6
Mount Palomar Observatory, 50
Murphy’s Law, 106
Neutron star, 41
in hot big bang model, 83
pulsar as, 52
Newton, 6, 38
No boundary condition, the, 97–98
probable histories under, 99–100
and real time, 101
reversal of time and, 116
Nobel Prize
for cold star theory, 42
for discovery of background
radiation, 22
Olbers, Heinrich, 9
Oppenheimer, Robert, 42, 43
Particle theory of light, 37
Pauli exclusion principle, 40
neutron stars and, 41
Peebles, Jim, 22
Penrose, Roger, 31–33, 45–46, 59
and nondecreasing property of event
horizon theory, 60

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

INDEX

Penzias, Arno, 20–21
and hot big bang model, 81
Phase transition, 88
Philosophical Transactions of the
Royal Sociey of London, 37
Physics, laws of, 76
Planck energy, 153
Planck’s quantum principle, 71–72
Planetary orbits, 3
Kepler’s theory of, 6
Newton’s theory of, 6
Pluto, 71, 72
Pole Star, 3
Porter, Neil, 73
Positive matter energy, 90
Primordial black holes, 69
gamma rays and, 70–73
hot body type radiation of, 74
probable distance of, 73
the search for, 70–73
Principia Mathematica Naturalis Causae, 6
Prism, 16
Psychological arrow, 109–110
Ptolemy, 4–7, 16
Pulsar, 52
Quantum gravitational effects, 94, 122–123
Quantum gravity, 92, 93–96, 98
Quantum mechanical uncertainty principle,
65, 76, 121–122

Quantum mechanics, 37
antiparticles in, 123
Einstein and, 121
general relativity and, 74–76
uncertainty principle of, 65, 76, 121–122
virtual particles in, 123
Quantum theory, 94
of gravity, 96–97, 112
singularity theorems and, 100
Quasar, 51, 54
Radar, development of, 28
Radial waves, 17
Real time history of the universe, 99
Red-shift stars, 17, 45
quasars as, 51
Renormalization, 123
Robertson, Howard, 23
Robinson, David, 49
Ryle, Martin, 29
Saturn, 4
Scherk, Joël, 126
Schmidt, Maarten, 50
Schwarz, John, 126, 127
Schwarzschild, Karl, 48, 49
Schwarzschild solution, 49
Scientific theory as mathematical
model, 100
Second law of thermodynamics, 61–64
Selection principle, 86

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

INDEX

Singularity, and the big bang theory,
27, 30, 31, 32, 45–47, 75–76,
85, 93–94, 100
Space-time continuum, 25
black holes and, 31, 43–44
curvature of, 123–124
Euclidean model of, 95
imaginary values theory in, 95
light in the, 43–44
no boundary condition and, 97
quantum gravity and, 96–98
relativity theory and, 44
string theory and, 127
texture of, 27, 102, 114
Space-time dimensions, 127
St. Augustine, 10, 131
Stadia, 3
Star, brightness of, 15
Star, life cycle of, 38–39
Starobinsky, Alexander, 65
Stars, composition of, 38
finite number of, 7
identifying types of, 16
Steady state theory, 28
Cambridge experiments and, 29
Sternberg Astronomical Institute, 92
String theories, 126–130
history of, 126
Strong force, 122

string theory of, 126
Supercool water, 88
System of the World, The, 38
Taylor, ]ohn G., 74
Theory of relativity, 19
absolute time and, 44
Thermodynamic arrow, 107–109, 114
Thorne, Kip, 53
Time, beginning of, 28
Time, direction of, 105–112
Uncertainty principle, 65, 76, 121–122
particles in, 122–123
Unified force, 88, 122
Unified theory, 95
possibility of, 131
Universal gravitation, law of, 6
Universe, average density of, 25
Universe, early models of, 3-10
Aristotle, 3
Copernicus, Nicholas, 5
Galilei, Galileo, 5
Kepler, ]ohannes, 6
Ptolemy, 4
Universe, expanding model of, 11
and creation theory, 12
density related to, 25–26
Hubble’s experiments and, 17–18
and the no boundary proposal, 101–02
positive matter energy in, 90–91

INDEX

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

Universe, infinite static model of,
8, 11
flaws of, 18
Universe, observable, 4
background radiation in, 21–22
big bang theory and, 11, 27–28, 30
Friedmann’s assumptions and,
20, 21–22, 23, 24
Vatican, 79, 97
Venus, 4
Walker, Arthur, 23
Water, symmetry of, 88
Wave theory of light, 37

Weak force, 122
Weekes, Trevor, 73
Wheeler, John, 37, 48
heavy water theory of, 54
White dwarf, 41, 42
Wilson, Robert, 21
and hot big bang model, 81
Wittgenstein, 136
World-line, 125
World-sheet, 125
Worm hole, 46
X ray emission, 53
Zeldovich,Yakov, 65

5F9A4512-DBD2-4640-B53D-F3CF22FFE0A2

WOWIO® is proud to have sponsored
this ebook for you. If you would like to
know more about us, visit us at…

www.wowio.com

